A Catholic prelate has expressed concern over reports that a number of Filipinos from Mindanao are allegedly undergoing training with the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) as the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) vowed to look into the information.
Basilan Bishop Martin Jumoad said he is particularly worried about the possible impact of the news on Christians in the southern part of the country.
“The worry is there and it will be heightened when it is done here in Mindanao,” he said in an interview.
“There is reason to be worried and the possibility is real,” added Jumoad.
Jumoad said he is hoping that the government will monitor the Filipinos who are reportedly undergoing training to become jihadists.
“I also hope our Muslim leaders will do something to neutralize this,” he added.
Meanwhile, Eastern Mindanao Command (Eastmincom) Commander Lt. Gen. Ricardo Rainier Cruz said they have not yet received any verified report on the matter, but they will investigate the information.
Former ISAFP chief and now 10th Infantry Division (10ID) commander Maj. Gen. Eduardo Año also said they have yet to monitor any signs of recruitment of Filipinos by the ISIS.
“When I was still chief of ISAFP wala kaming na-cover na valid intelligence, valid information,” said Año, who was the ISAFP chief until early August.
“If we (AFP) are to speculate, say something that is not validated, it may cause panic,” said Año.
“When we account (for) the remaining Abu Sayyaf and Jemaah Islamiyah members they are still here. We have not monitored any member of the local jihadists here leaving the country.”
But Brigadier General Arnold Quiapo, new chief of the AFP’s Intelligence Service (ISAFP) said: “We’re looking into it.”
“Right now, we’re checking and assessing information,” said Quiapo after relinquishing his post as commander of the Philippine Army’s 301st Infantry Brigade (301 IB) at Camp Hernandez in Dingle, Iloilo.
Quiapo said that the AFP will not take the ISIS connection lightly as there may be Muslim Filipinos who will take their form of sympathy to a higher level by joining a global terrorist network.
Earlier reports indicated that the ASG and the breakaway Bangsamoro Islamic Liberation Front (BIFF) have pledged support to the ISIS.
Davao Mayor Rodrigo Duterte revealed that a number of young Davaoenos left the city last month after being recruited to join the ISIS.
In an interview with the media on Monday, Duterte said: “I said na may nagbulong sa akin dito na may mga batan-on, young Filipino Muslims pumunta ng Middle East kasi nakipagsapalaran doon sa giyera (I said I received information that there were young Filipino Muslims who went to the Middle East and took their chances in the war there),” Duterte said.
“Takot ako baka nandoon sila sa ISIS at makuha nila ang technology of terror. Pag na import dito yan magkakaproblema tayo (I fear that they might have joined the ISIS and they will imbibe the technology of terror. If they will bring it here, we will have a problem),” he added.
Duterte refused to divulge to the media his sources of information.
Meanwhile, the Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) expressed doubt on the reported recruitment of ISIS in the country.
“The report that some 100 elements of the Abu Sayyaf Group (ASG) and so-called Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Movement (BIFM) have travelled to the Middle East and joined the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) is very unlikely”, the MILF said in an editorial posted on its website www.luwaran.com. (With reports from Alexander D. Lopez and Tara Yap)