Hopes for a Cease-Fire Rise as the Gaza War Drags On

he Gaza war has reached its eighth week, and people on both sides keep dying. But there are reports of a potential truce

Smoke and fire after an Israeli air strikes over Gaza City, on 20 August 2014.
MORE
Israeli Premier: ¡®We Will Not Stop¡¯ Gaza Operation
Some See Qatar¡¯s Hand in Collapse of Gaza Talks
One Result of the Gaza Conflict: Iran and Hamas Are Back Together
Israeli and Palestinian media outlets were abuzz with reports Monday that the various factions involved in the Israel-Hamas conflict were close to agreeing on a cease-fire deal following renewed efforts by Egypt and Saudi Arabia to help negotiate a truce. Either way, the possibility of reaching a cease-fire with a longer shelf life seemed to increase the likelihood of the sides reaching a cease-fire that would also be the prelude to a return to peace talks.

MORE
Israel and Palestinians Reach Open-Ended Cease-Fire Deal
Hamas Official: Cease-Fire Reached With Israel
Ivory Atrocity: Crime Groups Speed Elephant Slaughter NBC News
Shooting Range Instructor Killed by Girl With Uzi NBC News
American Freed by Militants in Syria Back in U.S. NBC News
Khaled al-Batsh, an Islamic Jihad official attending the Cairo talks, was the source of reports that on the possible cease-fire. But a senior Hamas official, Izzat al-Rishq, said the sides had yet to agree on a cease-fire in Gaza, according to Israeli daily Haaretz, while another Lebanon-based Hamas official, Osama Hamdan, would only confirm in a Hamas radio interview that ¡°efforts are under way to stop the Israeli aggression.¡± Late Sunday, the Egyptian Foreign Ministry issued a statement calling on Israel and Palestinian factions to agree to a cease-fire without a time limit attached and to return to the peace negotiations.

POPULAR AMONG SUBSCRIBERS
Eat Butter Fat Time Magazine Cover
Inside the Tragedy of Ferguson
Subscribe
The New Rules of Viral Fundraising
The Evolution of a Narcissist
A senior Israeli official reached by TIME says Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu¡¯s office is declining to comment on the rumors of a possible cease-fire and suggests ¡°exercising caution¡± in giving credence to the reports. A report on Israel¡¯s Walla! news site suggested that Egypt would make an announcement on a deal late Monday, one that would include a reopening the Rafah crossing between southern Gaza and Egypt and the expansion of Gaza¡¯s fishing zone to 12 nautical miles, two of Hamas¡¯ demands. If the cease-fire is maintained, the report says, Israel will allow more commercial products into Gaza, including construction materials.

Still, Israel and Hamas have very different visions about how the conflict should end ¡ª which makes it challenging to reach an agreement satisfactory to all sides. ¡°The dilemma is that Israel is not willing to talk before reaching a cease-fire, while there is still shooting going on, and the Palestinian factions insist that they want achievements in exchange for agreeing to a cease-fire,¡± says Ghassan Khatib, a veteran Palestinian political analyst and the vice president of Birzeit University in the West Bank.

Adding intrigue about what the week may hold, Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said in an interview Saturday with the Egypt¡¯s Sada El Balad station that in the coming days he would introduce his own plan for solving the greater Israel-Palestine conflict. Many analysts here have speculated that this will likely be built on the Arab Peace Initiative ¡ª also called the Saudi Peace Initiative ¡ª first put forward in 2002. In the plan, moderate Arab states would recognize Israel in return for Israel recognizing a Palestinian state in the West Bank and Gaza. Any such plan would, naturally, including a program for rebuilding Gaza, but Israel is concerned that materials like cement and steel will be used refresh Hamas¡¯ military capabilities ¡ª including the tunnels that became the focus of the Israel Defense Forces¡¯ recent Gaza invasion.

Abbas said he would be discussing the initiative this week with other top Palestinian officials in Ramallah. ¡°It will be an unconventional solution, but I¡¯m not going to declare war on Israel,¡± Abbas said in the interview. ¡°I have diplomatic and political solutions.¡± He suggested that he doesn¡¯t expect Washington to support his initiative but added that ¡°in the end, our Arab brothers will go with us.¡±

Khatib believes that Abbas¡¯s statement indicates that Saudi involvement would play a key role in a peace deal. ¡°Saudi and international parties are trying to bridge the gap by giving guarantees, meaning that they would set up a mechanism by which a third-party will guarantee freedom of movement to and from Gaza, but check that this cannot be used for the rearming of Gaza.¡± Egypt, he says, would like to play this role ¡ª or at least a pivotal one. The three key European players ¡ª France, Germany and Britain ¡ª all are offering assistance as well. The three countries are reportedly working on a proposal for a U.N. resolution to end the fighting, according to a report leaked to Haaretz, as part of a plan to return Gaza to Palestinian Authority control under international supervision ¡ª the territory has been run by Hamas since June 2007 ¡ª end the Israeli embargo on Gaza and resume peace talks.

The alternative, it seems, is continued war. Each side has made it clear other over the past week than they are ready to keep fighting indefinitely. With the conflict between Israel and Hamas already dragging on far longer than expected ¡ª it is now heading into its eighth week ¡ª politicians on both sides in the conflict have begun to refer to the possibility of war of attrition. That¡¯s a reference to the ongoing fighting following the 1967 Six-Day War, one that continued for another three years, pitting Israel against Egyptian, Jordanian, Palestinian and even Soviet forces. Netanyahu and his Defense Minister told Israelis on Aug. 24 to expect a protracted war and ¡°if necessary,¡± a delay of the start of the school year next week, at least for schools that are in the line of fire from Gaza.

In the meantime, both sides have continued their attacks. Israel has carried out 70 air strikes in the Gaza Strip over the past two days, the IDF said in its Twitter feed, while over the same period Israel was targeted by more than 230 rockets and mortars from Hamas, Islamic Jihad and other militant factions in Gaza. On Sunday a 4-year-old Israeli boy was laid to rest after he was killed in a mortar attack from Gaza on Friday, triggering an exodus of Israelis from communities near the Gaza border, which are not protected by the country¡¯s Iron Dome missile-defense system. The boy¡¯s death brought the number of Israelis killed in the ongoing war to 68, including 64 soldiers. That same day a Palestinian mother and her four children were killed in an Israeli air strike on Gaza. At least 2,120 Gazans have been killed in the conflict, according to the Palestinian Ministry of Health. Barring a lasting cease-fire, both numbers will keep rising.