EPL results: Gunners and Foxes play to 1-1 draw EPL results: Gunners and Foxes play to 1-1 draw Jul 26, 2014; Harrison, NJ, USA; New York Red Bulls midfielder Eric Alexander (12) and Arsenal midfielder Mathieu Flamini (20) fight for the ball in front of Arsenal defender Nacho Monreal (18) during the second half of a game at Red Bull Arena. The Red Bulls defeated Arsenal 1-0. Mandatory Credit: Brad Penner-USA TODAY SportsEPL    Arsenal and Leicester City put on a show today in their exciting English Premier League match at the King Power Stadium in Leicester. Arsenal was looking to steal a victory as the away team, while Leicester hoped to bring home their first win of the season in front of their legion of fans.  In the end, the game ended in a 1-1 draw as neither side could score in the second half of the game. The last 45 minutes became somewhat of a defensive battle, as no easy chances were given from either side. The match started off with a horrific collision between Aresenal&rsquo;s Laurent Koscielny and Leicester&rsquo;s Jeffrey Schlupp. In the 12th minute of the game, both men attempted to head the ball out of the air, but instead collided heads with ferocious force. While Schlupp was okay to continue, Koscielny was forced to be subbed out of the game after trying to continue for only a few minutes. The scoring kicked off with Alexis Sanchez&rsquo;s goal for Arsenal in the 20th minute. Coming from the right side of the pitch, Arsenal vollied a pass into the box that was broken up twice before falling to the feet of Alexis Sanchez. What ultimately resulted was Sanchez scoring from very close inside the box as the goalkeeper has absolutely no chance to save it. Just minutes later, in the 22nd to be exact, Leicester responded with a goal of their own to get the equalizer against Arsenal. Leonardo Ulloa tied the game with a sensational header into the goal off a great cross from Jeffrey Schlupp. Neither side could score in the remaining 20 minutes of the first half, and that drought continued on to the second half as well. The teams went back in forth in the second half exchanging chances, but ultimately neither side could put in the game winning goal in the last 45 minutes. Although the chances were numerous, none of them really provided the opportunity for an easy goal.