Rodgers 'might sign one more player' Rodgers 'might sign one more player' 
                
                    
                        
                        
                            
                              Media playback is not supported on this device.
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                
                    
                        Liverpool discipline pleases Rodgers
                    
                
            Liverpool boss Brendan Rodgers might sign "one more" player before Monday's transfer deadline but said it is more likely that players will leave.The Northern Irishman has told a number of fringe squad members that they are free to find other clubs.Midfielder Lucas Leiva is among those linked with leaving Anfield, with ex-Reds boss Rafael Benitez reportedly keen on taking him to Napoli."Players will mostly be going out rather than coming in," said Rodgers."Maybe one more will come in. A few boys have been told they aren't going to get much game time so they have been given that respect early on to help themselves find a club."Ton-up RodgersBrendan Rodgers took charge of his 100th match as Liverpool boss, and his record stands at won 56, drawn 21 and lost 23.:Only Kenny Dalglish (62) has won more in his first century of matches as Reds manager. Bill Shankly and Rafa Benitez both also won 56.Brazil international Lucas started Liverpool's opening Premier League fixture against Southampton, but has not been named on the bench in either of their two games since.Rodgers says he is "not sure" whether the 27-year-old will leave, while Fabio Borini and Oussama Assaidi are among the others linked with transfers away from the Premier League runners-up."Lucas is a very important member of our squad and he is unfortunate not to be in," said Rodgers after Sunday's 3-0 win at Tottenham. "I've not had anything through about him leaving but we will see how the next few days go."Rodgers watched his side bounce back from Monday's defeat at Manchester City with another comfortable win against previously unbeaten Spurs at White Hart Lane.Liverpool, who won 5-0 in the same fixture last season, eased to victory through goals from Raheem Sterling, Steven Gerrard and Alberto Moreno."We came here last year and put in an exceptional performance and today was just as good. We could have scored five or six," said Rodgers."Overall I'm pleased with two wins out of our three Premier League matches. It has been a decent start."
                
                    
                        Rodgers thought Reds debutant Mario Balotelli was "excellent" in his 60-minute appearance at Spurs
                    
                New &pound;16m striker Mario Balotelli wasted several chances on his Reds debut but Rodgers described the Italy international's display as "brilliant"."We have seen today he has bought straight into the team ethic. We have seen his appetite for football. He's not 100% match fit but his work without the ball, the pressure, strength and his quality was excellent."