Browns claim 3 off waivers Browns claim 3 off waivers Aug 28, 2014; Houston, TX, USA; San Francisco 49ers running back Glenn Winston (31) runs past Houston Texans defensive back Josh Victorian (27) during the game at NRG Stadium. Mandatory Credit: Kevin Jairaj-USA TODAY SportsNFL    One team&rsquo;s trash can apparently be another team&rsquo;s treasure. The Cleveland Browns have been busy on the waiver wire, claiming guard Ryan Seymour and running back Glenn Winston from the San Francisco 49ers and guard Caylin Hauptmann from the Seattle Seahawks. Tom Pelissero of USA Today had the Hauptmann claim, via Twitter: Super Bowl champion #Seahawks lost two on waivers: guard Caylin Hauptmann to #Browns and DL Benson Mayowa to #Raiders. &mdash; Tom Pelissero (@TomPelissero) August 31, 2014 Matt Maiocco of Comcast Sports Net Bay Area had the report of the two former 49ers being claimed.  Seymour played in all four preseason games for the 49ers. He was a seventh-round pick by the Seahawks out of Vanderbilt in 2013 and spent time on the rosters of both Seattle and San Francisco last season, but did not appear in a game. Seymour started 35 games at four different offensive line position> Hauptmann returns to the Browns, who signed him as an undrafted free agent out of Florida International in 2013 and had him on the practice squad until he was signed last September by the Seahawks. Hauptmann played in one game for Seattle last season &hellip; but it was enough to get a big, shiny ring. Winston, 25, had a checkered career at Michigan State that included a six-month jail sentence for getting into a fight with a Spartan hockey player and another six months for a probation violation after getting into an incident at a Michigan State fraternity house. The second incident got him kicked off the team in 2009 and he didn&rsquo;t resurface until last season at Division II Northwood, where he ran for 717 yards and nine touchdowns in eight games. He led the 49ers in rushing this preseason with 113 yards on 19 carries with one touchdown in three games. The Browns will have to clear roster spots for the trio.     