Jose Bautista homers again; Jays rally past Yankees Jose Bautista homers again; Jays rally past Yankees 
                
                
           
                    
    TORONTO (AP) Jose Bautista homered for the fifth straight game and the Toronto Blue Jays erased a three-run deficit to beat the New York Yankees 4-3 Sunday.


    Derek Jeter had a chance to tie it for the Yankees in the ninth inning. With the sellout crowd of 45,678 on its feet, Jeter popped up with a runner on third for the final out in his last regular-season at-bat in Toronto.


    Brett Gardner finished a single shy of the cycle, but New York lost its second straight. Gardner also had a big opportunity in the ninth, grounding out with a runner on second to bring up Jeter.


    Edwin Encarnacion and Melky Cabrera also homered for Toronto, and J.A. Happ won for the first time in seven starts. Munenori Kawasaki singled home the go-ahead run in the seventh to help the Blue Jays take two of three in a series between AL East teams trying to stay close in the playoff chase.


    Brandon McCarthy, #Yankees blow three-run lead, fall 4-3 to Blue Jays http://t.co/FpbYmvGZi7— Big Apple Baseball (@BigABaseball) August 31, 2014


    Brandon McCarthy, #Yankees blow three-run lead, fall 4-3 to Blue Jays http://t.co/FpbYmvGZi7


    Gardner gave the Yankees a quick lead when he connected on Happ's second pitch for his sixth career leadoff homer and fifth this year.


    Francisco Cervelli hit an RBI single in the fourth and the Yankees made it 3-0 in the fifth when Gardner tripled and scored on an errant relay throw by shortstop Jose Reyes.


    New York right-hander Brandon McCarthy allowed just two singles and a walk through the first five innings, but ran into trouble in the sixth. Cabrera ended a streak of nine straight outs with a homer to right and, four pitches later, Bautista went deep.


    Jose Cruz Jr. holds the Blue Jays record for consecutive games with a home run, connecting in six straight from Sept. 29 to Oct. 5, 2001.


    Encarnacion tied it at 3 with a leadoff drive in the seventh, and McCarthy left after walking Dioner Navarro. Dellin Betances got two outs before pinch-runner Steve Tolleson stole second and scored on Kawasaki's single, sliding in under Cervelli's tag at home plate.


    Happ (9-8) allowed three runs and nine hits in seven innings to win for the first time since July 22 against Boston.


    Brett Cecil worked the eighth and Casey Janssen finished for his 20th save in 24 chances.


    McCarthy (5-4) allowed four runs and five hits in six innings, losing for the fourth time in five starts.


    Starting as the designated hitter, Jeter went 1 for 5 with a single in the first.

                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                