Rory McIlroy big third round at Deutsche Bank Championship Rory McIlroy big third round at Deutsche Bank Championship Aug 21, 2014; Paramus, NJ, USA; Rory McIlroy hits out of a greenside bunker on the fifth hole during the first round of The Barclays golf tournament at Ridgewood Country Club. Mandatory Credit: John Munson/THE STAR-LEDGER via USA TODAY SportsGolf    Rory McIlroy played a calm, first two rounds at the Deutsche Bank Championship shooting a two-under 69 on Friday and a one-under 70 on Saturday, but he kicked everything into gear Sunday when he took control shooting a seven-under 64 to jump to the second spot. While much of the field still has to finish for the day, McIlroy has definitely played his way into competition for the final round of the second PGA Tour playoff.  According to ESPN golf analyst, Justin Ray, McIlroy&rsquo;s best third round in his career on the PGA Tour is a 64 and it was at the Deutsche Bank Championship in 2013. He tied that record today carding a 64 with seven birdies and no bogeys. The lowest 3rd round score of Rory McIlroy&rsquo;s @PGATOUR career is 64. It came last year at this event. He&rsquo;s -7 through 16 today. &mdash; Justin Ray (@JustinRayGC) August 31, 2014 McIlroy was cruising all day long with three birdies on the front nine and a strong four birdies on the back nine. Through 16 holes, McIlroy was dominating with 14 of 16 greens hit in regulation as well as strong approach shots all day long. Rory McIlroy through 16 holes today: 7-under, 14/16 GIR hit, 7 approach shots inside 20 feet. #OnFire &mdash; Justin Ray (@JustinRayGC) August 31, 2014 McIlroy has won two PGA Tour FedEx Cup Playoff events in his career. The 2012 Deutsche Bank Championship and the BMW Championship in the same year. Rory has played his way into being tied for second trailing Australian leader, Jason Day by just one stroke so far. It wasn&rsquo;t just McIlroy who had a big day Sunday. His playing partner Chirs Kirk also shot seven under par and played his way into second place trailing just Jason Day. Between the two of them, they had dominating performances where they combined for 14-under par, no bogeys and 32-for-33 on putts inside 10 feet. Both Kirk and McIlroy could find themselves in the final group on Monday. Regardless, both are playing with big chances at a victory.