Rory who? Caroline Wozniacki eliminates Maria Sharapova Rory who? Caroline Wozniacki eliminates Maria Sharapova 
                
                
           
                    Having made herself known for a failed romance more than her tennis prowess in recent competition, Denmark&#39;s Caroline Wozniacki showed she can still handle a racquet with the best of them.

Sunday at the U.S. Open, Wozniacki added to the carnage in the women&#39;s draw by beating Maria Sharapova 6-4, 2-6, 6-2.

With the victory, Wozniacki reached the final eight of the final grand slam event of 2014.

In a battle of tennis glamour girls, Wozniacki wore down Sharapova to reach a grand slam quarterfinal for the first time in more than two years. During that time, she was distracted by an engagement to golfer Rory McIlroy, who called off their relationship earlier this year.

Wozniacki beat the five-time major champ in 2 hours, 37 minutes on a steamy day at Flushing Meadows. Sharapova received a time violation warning when she came back to the court too late from the break before the final set. Wozniacki later complained to the chair umpire that her opponent was taking too long between points.

The 10th-seeded Wozniacki, who plans to return to New York in two months to run a marathon, looked far fresher than Sharapova, who is usually the one outlasting foes.

With the fifth-seeded Sharapova&#39;s loss, No. 1 Serena Williams is the only woman left in the top six.

The previous match in which Wozniacki beat Sharapova was four years ago at the same tournament.

Wozniacki next faces No. 13 Sara Errani, who won her match against qualifier Mirjana Lucic-Baroni earlier in the day.

&quot;It means so much to me,&quot; Wozniacki said. &quot;Things have been a bit up and down this year. To win against a champion like Maria is an unbelievable feeling.&quot;

A former No. 1 player who held her rank for more than a year, Wozniacki went through a decline that included a knee injury. She lost her opening match at Flushing Meadows two years ago and was knocked out by a qualifier in the third round last year.

Then, after she announced their engagement via social media in January, McIlroy called off their wedding in May. McIlroy has been on a tear in golf, and now Wozniacki shows signs of rebounding as well.

Contributing: Associated Press

&nbsp;
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                