TJ Dillashaw not interested in rematch with Renan Barao TJ Dillashaw not interested in rematch with Renan Barao August 30, 2014; Sacramento, CA, USA; T.J. Dillashaw (red gloves) reacts before his fight against Joe Soto (not pictured) during the bantamweight title bout of UFC 177 at Sleep Train Arena. Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY SportsMMA    TJ Dillashaw successfully defended his bantamweight title for the first time at UFC 177, defeating Joe Soto in the fifth round. Despite Soto replacing Renan Barao on just over 24 hours&rsquo; notice, the champion has no intentions to rematch the Brazilian, and is hoping to move on from the 27 year-old.  While rarely troubling TJ Dillashaw, Joe Soto was more successful than many had feared following the late replacement fight, making it into the closing minutes of the five-round contest. The champion was successful in the fifth, stunning Soto with a head kick before scoring the TKO with subsequent strikes on the ground. The bout marked Dillashaw&rsquo;s first Octagon appearance since his sensational performance against Renan Barao for the title at UFC 173, putting in one of the performances of the year. A big underdog for the fight, Dillashaw pulled off the upset with a fifth round TKO &mdash; just as he did on Saturday night. At the post-fight press conference, the Sacramento crowd favourite had this to say on Joe Soto and the situation in general. &ldquo;It was a real stressful situation that I just had to man up and do.&rdquo; &ldquo;I knew Joe Soto was a tough fighter,&rdquo; Dillashaw said,&nbsp;&ldquo;I&rsquo;ve practiced with him; eight to 10 weeks ago he came into our room and practiced with us. I knew he was a tough wrestler, great grappler. He&rsquo;s been around and had some great fights. To switch my opponent at the last minute like that, it was a real stressful situation that I just had to man up and do.&rdquo; While Dana White confirmed that Renan Barao would not get a title shot upon his return after failing to make weight, Dillashaw confirmed that he isn&rsquo;t focusing on a potential rematch with the former champion. &ldquo;For now it&rsquo;s behind me, I just had to beat Joe Soto. I had to switch my mind up in one day. I hate those questions: &lsquo;Who do you want to fight next?&rsquo; I&rsquo;ve just been thinking about one person for the last 10 weeks, and I had to switch it up last night.&rdquo; Post-fight, many fans were calling for a fight between TJ Dillashaw and former champion Dominick Cruz, who returns from a near-three year hiatus next month at UFC 178.