Transfer deadline day: Eight European teams to look out for Transfer deadline day: Eight European teams to look out for Soccer    Monday marks the end of the summer transfer window for Europe&rsquo;s elite leagues, and we look a some teams who could make major coups before the deadline passes.  In a window that has already seen Angel di Maria join Manchester United, James Rodriguez join Real Madrid and Luis Suarez join Barcelona, a lot more activity is expected in the dying hours of the summer window, including some potentially major deals involving Europe&rsquo;s biggest sides. Some may be panic buys, some may be long-awaited purchases, but expect plenty more cash to be splashed by the big clubs. Past summer deadline days have seen major transfers occur; Mesut &Ouml;zil joining Arsenal, Wayne Rooney joining Manchester United and Robinho&rsquo;s shocking transfer to Manchester City. Could another shock be on the cards? This article will look at eight of the major European sides who could potentially cause a stir with some big transfer deals on, or before, the summer window expires. Do you agree with the choices featured in this article? Or do you think there are other clubs that have been overlooked? Any shocking deals you think will be pulled off before the deadline? Sound off in the comments section below. Potential signings do not indicate that there is a chance the side in question could sign&nbsp;all of the players mentioned. In most cases, the suggested players are in the same position>  Atletico Madrid July 27, 2014; San Francisco, CA, USA; Atletico Madrid player Saul (7) is congratulated by player Guillherme Siqueira (3, right) after Saul made the game-winning shootout goal during the match against the San Jose Earthquakes at Candlestick Park. Atletico Madrid defeated the Earthquakes 4-3 in a shootout. Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY Sports Atletico Madrid are looking to defend their La Liga crown, but have made a lacklustre start to their campaign with a 0-0 draw away to Rayo Vallecano before an unconvincing 2-1 win over newcomers Eibar. With Real Madrid and Barcelona both recruiting some major transfers, Atletico may struggle to compete with their rivals if they are unable to pull out a late deal or two. Multiple reports have suggested that Torino and Italy winger Alessio Cerci is having a medical at Atletico ahead of a permanent deal, though that potential deal will merely strengthen, not fix, a position> After losing Diego Costa, Adrian and David Villa, Atletico have brought in Mario Mandzukic, but have failed to add&nbsp;a further accomplished striker alongside the Croat. While Raul Jimenez has signed with the club, he joins from the Mexican league and has no experience in Europe; meanwhile, Barcelona have signed Luis Suarez and Real Madrid are linked to Falcao. Simeone&rsquo;s side also look set to offload a player or two, with Diego Godin linked with a move away from the club in recent weeks. Toby Alderweireld is more likely to leave the club, however, with reported interest from the likes of Sunderland, Southampton, Arsenal and Newcastle United. Like Alderweireld, winger Cristian Rodriguez has been heavily linked with a move to the Premier League. Potential signings:&nbsp;Alessio Cerci, Fabio Borini, Marco Reus &amp; Lucas Silva. Potential departures: Toby Alderweireld, Cristian Rodriguez &amp; Diego Godin.  Arsenal Jul 26, 2014; Harrison, NJ, USA; New York Red Bulls midfielder Eric Alexander (12) and Arsenal midfielder Mathieu Flamini (20) fight for the ball in front of Arsenal defender Nacho Monreal (18) during the second half of a game at Red Bull Arena. The Red Bulls defeated Arsenal 1-0. Mandatory Credit: Brad Penner-USA TODAY Sports Arsenal have been active during the summer window, but&nbsp;suffered a body blow when Olivier Giroud was ruled out for the rest of 2014. Arsene Wenger now has just a handful of options in the forward position> Wenger was linked to a late swoop for Loic Remy and, while not adding height to the team, the Frenchman would add goalscoring prowess to a team that is lacking natural goalscorers. The Arsenal manager was also linked with a shock move for Nikola Zigic, though those talks fizzled out soon after. Radamel Falcao is reportedly still on the market, while Danny Welbeck has been made available by fierce rivals Manchester United and Wilfried Bony could leave for the correct fee. If Arsenal are serious about contending for the title, they cannot depend on 21 year-old Yaya Sanogo to provide the goals, while Alexis Sanchez and Joel Campbell are most effective in the wide areas. Joel Campbell could leave the club on loan, though Wenger is insistent that the Costa Rican is part of his first team plans. He also stated the same thing regarding Lukas Podolski, who has been linked to the likes of Bayer Leverkusen, Wolfsburg, AC Milan and Juventus. Potential signings: Wilfried Bony, Falcao or Danny Welbeck. Possibly Sami Khedira, if the right fee is offered. Potential departures:&nbsp;Lukas Podolski &amp; Joel Campbell.  Liverpool via Liverpool&rsquo;s Facebook page Brendan Rodgers has been one of the busiest managers in the Premier League during this summer window, losing a key player in Luis Suarez, but recruiting big money signings such as Adam Lallana, Mario Balotelli and Dejan Lovren. But has the 41 year-old wrapped up all of his deals? Liverpool continue to be linked to a number of sought-after players, from domestic players such as Micah Richards to world-class, internationally renowned players such as Falcao. While they have signed a top striker in Mario Balotelli, can the Italy international contribute a similar amount of goals to Luis Suarez? This is where Falcao may come in handy; Brendan Rodgers would make a huge statement should he agree terms for the Colombian, who has been prolific in La Liga, Portuguese Liga and Ligue 1. A number of players have also been linked with a move away from Anfield, with midfielders Joe Allen and Lucas Leiva, plus forward Fabio Borini all reported to be leaving the club. If Liverpool are able to free up funds, will Brendan Rodgers use them to make a last-ditch attempt at strengthening certain position> Potential signings:&nbsp;Falcao, Micah Richards, Ezequiel Lavezzi &amp; Wilfried Bony. Potential departures:&nbsp;Joe Allen, Fabio Borini &amp; Lucas Leiva.  Real Madrid Jul 26, 2014; Denver, CO, USA; Manchester United head coach Louis van Gaal welcomes forward Javier Chicharito Hernandez (14) onto the pitch in the second half against AS Roma at Sports Authority Field. Manchester United defeated AS Roma 3-2. Mandatory Credit: Ron Chenoy-USA TODAY Sports Real Madrid have been tipped to sign a striker before the transfer window closes, though that may not be the only arrival at the Bernabeu. Javier Hernandez looks on the verge of joining the Champions League winners on a season-long loan, after Falcao looked destined to join James Rodriguez at the club. With the departure of Xabi Alonso, could Carlo Ancelotti look for a new central midfielder? Betting odds have suggested that Madrid could be set to make a late bid for Arturo Vidal,&nbsp;while certain sources have linked Luis Gustavo with the club. Ancelotti still has capable centre midfielders such as Toni Kroos, Sami Khedira and Luka Modric, though Xabi Alonso offered something a little different to all three. A late swoop for a midfield recruitment, especially following a disappointing defeat at the hands of Real Sociedad, could headline the transfer deadline day. There may be more outgoings for Real Madrid following Alonso to Bayern Munich and di Maria to Manchester United, especially considering the money spent by Ancelotti. Isco has been linked with a number of clubs after failing to make an impression in his opening season, while Sami Khedira remains linked with Arsenal, despite reportedly committing his future to Real Madrid. Potential signings: Javier Hernandez, Falcao, Arturo Vidal &amp; Luis Gustavo. Potential departures: Isco &amp; Sami Khedira.  Juventus June 28, 2014; Belo Horizonte, BRAZIL; Chile player Arturo Vidal reacts after the round of sixteen match against Brazil in the 2014 World Cup at Estadio Mineirao. Mandatory Credit: Tim Groothuis/Witters Sport via USA TODAY Sports &nbsp; While Juventus are attempting to do their utmost to keep Arturo Vidal and Paul Pogba at the club, could Massimiliano Allegri add to his squad before the summer window comes to a close. Juventus are lacking top talent in the attacking areas, with Marko Vucinic, Fabio Quagliarella and Dani Osvaldo all departing the club. Allegri has distanced himself from links to Falcao, and look set to miss out on Javier Hernandez, who is on the verge of joining Real Madrid on loan. Danny Welbeck is available for transfer, with Wilfried Bony another potential option for Allegri as well as&nbsp;struggling Tottenham forward Roberto Soldado. Lukas Podolski looks the most likely option for Allegri, with the World Cup winner struggling to cement a place in the starting XI at Arsenal. Arsene Wenger has claimed that Podolski will stay at the club, though this may be an attempt to encourage a higher bid from the Serie A champions. Juventus look set for a busy transfer window, even if their only duty is attempting to keep hold of key players. With a number of sought-after stars at the club, there may be new arrivals should the likes of Vidal and Giovinco leave The Old Lady. Potential signings: Falcao, Lukas Podolski, Danny Welbeck, Roberto Soldado &amp; Wilfried Bony. Potential departures: Arturo Vidal, Paul Pogba &amp; Sebastian Giovinco.  Chelsea July 4, 2014; Rio De Janeiro, BRAZIL; Germany player Sami Khedira (left) battles for the ball with France player Paul Pogba during the quarterfinal match in the 2014 World Cup at Estadio Do Maracana. Mandatory Credit: Tim Groothuis/Witters Sport via USA TODAY Sports Despite making a number of high-profile deals in a successful summer window for Jose Mourinho, Chelsea could pull off a late coup or two before the window expires. Loic Remy became the third high-profile forward to join Mourinho&rsquo;s side this summer, so a further attacking option looks unlikely amidst links to Falcao. Brazilian attacking midfielder Lucas Silva, who is reportedly seeking a move to Europe, is one option that Mourinho may look for, following a number of top young talent joining Stamford Bridge. One long shot comes in the form of former Manchester United midfielder Paul Pogba, who has been linked with a big money move to Stamford Bridge all summer. Pogba, one of the biggest prospects in Serie A, may be available for the right fee, albeit a large one. If Jose Mourinho wants to make a huge statement, put Europe&rsquo;s elite on alert and become one of the favourites for the Champions League, a deadline day swoop for Paul Pogba would do just that. With Marco van Ginkel and Fernando Torres recently being loaned out to AC Milan, don&rsquo;t expect too many more outgoings at Chelsea. One potential departure, however, comes in the form of long-term goalkeeper Petr Cech, who is now destined for the substitutes bench following the emergence of Thibaut Courtois, whose loan deal at Atletico Madrid expired in the summer. Potential signings: Lucas Silva &amp; Paul Pogba. Potential departures:&nbsp;Petr Cech.  Manchester United Jul 29, 2014; Landover, MD, USA; Manchester United coach Louis Van Gaal (center) looks on prior to the match against Inter Milan at FedEx Field. Mandatory Credit: Evan Habeeb-USA TODAY Sports This is potentially the biggest club to look out for this summer. Following an unsuccessful 2013-14 campaign &mdash; finishing 7th in the league and failing to qualify for Europe &mdash; and the dismissal of David Moyes, Louis van Gaal has made four major signings since joining the club. Daley Blind is also on the verge of joining the club, though he may not be the last. Out of nowhere, Monaco forward Radamel Falcao is now heavily linked with a move to Manchester United, who look set to lose Javier Hernandez and Danny Welbeck. With Robin van Persie struggling for fitness, this would leave just Wayne Rooney and James Wilson as potentially attacking options, which would make a Falcao swoop a sensible, and huge, signing for van Gaal. Arturo Vidal links fail to go away, though the move looks less likely after the Chilean featured in Juventus&rsquo; win over Chievo. Nigel de Jong could be a potentially signing to fill the void in the centre of midfield, while Arsenal targets Luis Gustavo&nbsp;and Sami Khedira are potential options in the centre of midfield. United are also lacking in the centre of defence, but lost out on the likes of Mehdi Benatia, Thomas Vermaelen and Mats Hummels this summer. A centre back may be what Louis van Gaal focuses on, though no word has been given on who exactly the Dutchman may target to slot into his 3-at-the-back formation. Plenty of departures are expected at Old Trafford, with some on the verge of completion and some merely speculation. Only time will tell in a deadline day expected to be busy for Manchester United. Potential signings: Daley Blind, Nigel de Jong, Arturo Vidal, Radamel Falcao, Luis Gustavo &amp; Sami Khedira. Potential departures:&nbsp;Tom Cleverley, Danny Welbeck, Javier Hernandez, Anderson, Maruoane Fellaini &amp; Anders Lindegaard.  AC Milan Aug 2, 2014; Charlotte, NC, USA; Milan forward Mario Balotelli (45), Milan defender Cristian Zapata (17) and Milan forward Keisuke Honda (10) at Bank of America Stadium. Mandatory Credit: Jim Dedmon-USA TODAY Sports &nbsp; Following their 3-1 victory over Lazio, Filippo Inzaghi made an impressive start to his career as manager of AC Milan. The unsettled Serie A side finished in mid-table last season, which led to the dismissal of Clarence Seedorf. Inzaghi has already loaned in Fernando Torres and Marco van Ginkel from Chelsea this week, though looks set to further his options. AS Roma&rsquo;s Mattia Destro, heavily linked with a move away from Stadio Olimpico, has been one name that has tickled Inzaghi&rsquo;s fancy, and may be subject to a late bid from the former Italy legend. Adel Taarabt is another name linked with a move to AC Milan, following a loan spell from QPR last season. The Moroccan is currently out of favour under boss Harry Redknapp &mdash; who has criticised his work rate in the past. Taarabt may be available for a low fee, and following his successful in the Serie A last season, Inzaghi may look to bring him back to San Siro. While Joel Campbell looks unlikely to make the move to AC Milan following a number of links, Jackson Martinez is odds-on to join Inzaghi&rsquo;s side. The FC Porto striker is reportedly keen on a move to Serie A, and he would add to a strike force that is missing Mario Balotelli. Nigel de Jong could be on the way out, Louis van Gaal may be keen on reuniting with the Dutch regular, if de Jong wishes to join his former club&rsquo;s rivals, Manchester United. Another player who has been linked with a move to the Premier League is highly rated right back Mattia de Sciglio, who was subject to a rejected bid. Phillipe Mexes could also leave the club, with Manchester United reportedly interested in his services. Potential signings: Joel Campbell, Jackson Martinez, Adel Taarabt &amp; Mattia Destro. Potential departures: Mattia de Sciglio, Philippe Mexes &amp; Nigel de Jong.