Deadline day gossip: City & Arsenal offered Falcao Deadline day gossip: City & Arsenal offered Falcao For a list of confirmed transfers, check out the transfers page.TRANSFER GOSSIPManchester City and Arsenal have been offered Monaco striker Radamel Falcao, 28, for around &pound;55m. (Guardian) (external)
                
                    
                        Will the battle to land Falcao come down to a straight fight between Manchester City and Arsenal?
                    
                Arsenal are set to make an offer for Sevilla striker Carlos Bacca, 27. (Metro) (external)Manchester United will demand &pound;5m from any club hoping to take forward Danny Welbeck, 23, on loan for the rest of the season. (Sun - subscription required) (external)Arsenal have been pipped to the signing of Paris St-Germain midfielder Adrien Rabiot, 19, by Roma. (Daily Express) (external)Meanwhile, Gunners forward Joel Campbell, 22, has requested a loan move to Portuguese side Benfica.(O Jogo - in Portuguese)  (external)
                
                    
                        Monday's Sun back page
                    
                Tom Cleverley's &pound;8m move to Aston Villa from Manchester United is under threat because of the 25-year-old midfielder's wage demands. (Daily Telegraph) (external)Sunderland are closing in on a loan move for Inter Milan forward Ricky Alvarez, 26. (Sunderland Echo) (external)Black Cats manager Gus Poyet is still hopeful of re-signing Liverpool forward Fabio Borini, 23. (Sunderland Echo) (external)Valencia officials have met with representatives of Manchester City striker Alvaro Negredo, 29, to discuss a possible move ahead of Monday's deadline. (Marca) (external)Manchester United boss Louis van Gaal has ordered chief executive Ed Woodward to find willing buyers for six of his first-team squad. (Caught Offside) (external)
                
                    
                        Could Jermain Defoe be on his way back to the Premier League?
                    
                Former Tottenham striker Jermain Defoe, 31, is wanted by Queens Park Rangers after Ryan Nelsen, the manager who took him to the MLS, was sacked by Toronto. (Guardian) (external)Newcastle United have had an offer for Lyon striker Alexandre Lacazette, 23, turned down by the French club. (Chronicle) (external)Fulham hope to sign defender Mark Hudson, 32, and striker Matt Smith, 25, from Championship rivals Cardiff City and Leeds United respectively.(Daily Mail) (external)OTHER GOSSIPManchester United's record deal for Angel Di Maria could ultimately cost the club &pound;130m. (Daily Express) (external)Meanwhile, Real Madrid coach Carlo Ancelotti has appeared to hit out at Di Maria following his move to England. (Evening Standard) (external)United are interested in Roma midfielder Kevin Strootman, 24, but they will have to wait until January to get the deal done. (Daily Star) (external)In-form Swansea midfielder Nathan Dyer hopes to force his way into the England squad. (Sky Sports) (external)England manager Roy Hodgson believes Jack Wilshere could have a big part to play in the Euro 2016 qualification campaign. (The FA)BEST OF SOCIAL MEDIABayern Munich's players posed in matching shirts and lederhosen in a photoshoot (external) for a German beer brand. And Liverpool midfielder Lucas Leiva took to Twitter (external) on Sunday to take issue with another user who claimed the Brazilian was in talks with two rival English clubs, accusing the poster of "giving wrong information".AND FINALLYFormer Argentina striker Gabriel Batistuta has revealed that he asked a specialist to amputate his legs because of the excruciating ankle pain he suffered after retirement. (Daily Mirror) (external)