Minnesota led by 31 before Illinois' late run Minnesota led by 31 before Illinois' late run 
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) -- Kelly Roysland doesn't have a household name, but Illinois coach Theresa Grentz won't soon forget her.  Roysland came off the bench to score a career-high 19 points Sunday as Minnesota (No. 13 ESPN/USA Today, No. 12 AP) defeated Illinois 80-68.  Roysland hit all six of her field-goal attempts in the first half, including a pair of 3-pointers, as Minnesota pulled away from the Illini early. The sophomore's previous high was 16 points.  "She'd hit five 3-pointers all season, and she hits two in the first half against us," an exasperated Grentz said. "We knew Janel (McCarville) was going to get her points, but at the same time, the big thing is not to let everybody else go off on you."  McCarville scored 16 points and grabbed nine rebounds while Jamie Broback and Shannon Schonrock each scored 12 points for Minnesota (16-3, 6-1 Big Ten), which shot 55 percent from the field and led 80-49 before the Illini scored the game's final 19 points.  Tiffanie Guthrie led Illinois with 26 points while Angelina Williams added 24 for the Illini. Williams, the Big Ten's leading scorer at 20 points per game, was mostly held in check by Shannon Bolden. She had only eight points on 3-of-8 shooting when Bolden checked out of the game for good with 7:27 to play.  The Illini (11-6, 3-4) opened strong, keeping pace with Minnesota shot-for-shot for the first six minutes. Guthrie's jumper in the lane gave Illinois its last lead at 12-11, but Roysland hit a 3-pointer and a driving bank shot to trigger an 18-4 run in which she scored nine points.  "It makes us impossible to guard when you've got somebody coming off the bench like Kelly playing like that," Minnesota coach Pam Borton said. "I thought we did a good job establishing our inside game early and when we do that, the perimeter opens up."  Roysland picked up where she left off in the second half, scoring Minnesota's first basket on a 3-pointer from the wing and then taking a steal end-to-end for a layup to put the Gophers on top 51-29. She finally missed on her ninth shot, a 3-point attempt, and finished the game 8-for-10 from the field.  "It was great to be able to get some open shots, some open looks, and knock them down," said Roysland, who had scored in double figures only once in her last 12 games. "It helped to get off to a good start. I knocked down my first couple of shots and got some confidence back in my shot."  Meanwhile, McCarville was having her way inside, displaying a variety of low-post moves to beat a constant Illinois double-team. She also thrilled the crowd by finishing a fast break with a layup off a behind-the-back pass from teammate April Calhoun -- a common sight when former teammate Lindsay Whalen ran the floor but a relatively new wrinkle with Calhoun, who is in her first season as a starter with Minnesota.  "I think we're getting a good feel for how we play with each other and what our tendencies are," McCarville said. "April did a good job of drawing the defense and made a good pass behind her back -- it was Whalenesque."