Memphis Grizzlies Waive Jamaal Franklin Memphis Grizzlies Waive Jamaal Franklin Oct 18, 2013; Orlando, FL, USA; Memphis Grizzlies head coach David Joerger talks with shooting guard Jamaal Franklin (22) against the Orlando Magic during the second half at Amway Center. Memphis Grizzlies defeated the Orlando Magic 97-91. Mandatory Credit: Kim Klement-USA TODAY SportsNBA    A year after being drafted in the second round, Jamaal Franklin has been waived by the Memphis Grizzlies using the stretch provision rarely used by NBA teams. It&rsquo;s unusual for teams to cut players after just one season after drafting them, but that&rsquo;s what the Grizzlies did, according to Ronald Tillery of the Commercial Appeal. Griz waived second-year guard Jamaal Franklin today using stretch provision, per source. CA story coming&hellip; &mdash; Ronald Tillery (@CAGrizBeat) August 31, 2014 Franklin played in 21 games last season with the Grizzlies, averaging just 1.9 points, 1.1 rebounds and 0.3 assists in 7.7 minutes per game.  Coming out of San Diego State, Franklin was considered a strong three-point shooter. He shot 45.5 percent from beyond the arc last season, but didn&rsquo;t offer much else beyond the occasional catch-and-shoot jumper. Franklin had one year remaining on his guaranteed rookie deal at $816,482 that will now be stretched over the next three seasons for salary cap reasons. Now with 14 players with guaranteed contracts, the Grizzlies free up a roster spot for next season. Teams can carry up to 15 players in the regular season. The stretch provision allows teams to waive a player and stretch the guaranteed money remaining on the players contracts over the following three seasons. It&rsquo;s used by cap strapped teams to waive players in order to free up roster space. Teams can then go over the cap to sign players to the veteran minimum. For the Grizzlies, the team is void of many solid shooters. The team signed Vince Carter in the offseason, and will need guys like Courtney Lee and Quincy Pondexter to help space the floor for Zach Randolph, Marc Gasol and Mike Conley.