Bollywood may have found its sporting soul mate in Pro Kabaddi Bollywood may have found its sporting soul mate in Pro Kabaddi 
										
		You know a sporting league is different when Navneet Gautam, the captain of the winning team, says: &ldquo;Our lives have changed.&rdquo;
If that doesn&rsquo;t convince you, here&rsquo;s what Rakesh Kumar, the captain of the third-place team, had to say: &ldquo;This is the high point of all our lives. We have won Asian Games and world championships but this league has made the whole country learn about kabaddi.&rdquo;
Pretty impressive for thirty-seven days of work, which is is how long the first Star Sports Pro Kabaddi League season lasted.
According to Uday Shankar, the CEO of Star India, the PKL has &ldquo;has set a new benchmark in terms of viewership for any non-cricketing sport, evident from the fact in the first 15 days, the league received a cumulative viewership of 288 million. Based on these viewership numbers, Pro Kabaddi has attracted more eyeballs than any other sport in the the country apart from Cricket, making Kabaddi the number 2 sport in India.&rdquo;
That response has surprised both the organisers and the players, in a good way. What has been just as pleasing for Star is that 38 percent of the total viewers have been women and 21 percent children, suggesting kabaddi can be enjoyed by the whole family.

The appeal of kabaddi is easy to understand. A mix of wrestling and an old fashioned game of tag, with a touch of gymnastics and some martial arts moves mixed in, the sport is high-energy and high impact. The action is non-stop and the scoring system allows teams to mount spectacular comebacks. The game is simple enough for a na&iuml;ve fan to follow along but there is enough nuance and strategy to engage a dedicated enthusiast. 
India is also the best in the world, having won all five world championships to this point. Yet the players were hardly household names. 
What it took to bring it to the nation&rsquo;s attention, at least temporarily, was adding a healthy layer of entertainment. The Indian Premier League may have created the blueprint for sports leagues in India by marrying cricket and Bollywood, but Bollywood may have found its sporting soul mate in kabaddi.
For all of the IPL&rsquo;s success, cricket&rsquo;s origins, and therefore its values, lie in uppercrust England. The marriage between sport and movies forced by the Indian fan&rsquo;s passion for both rather than any natural affinity between the two. Kabaddi was born out of Indian soil and its appeal is earthy and raw, much like a Salman Khan film.
It is a combination that had a packed house at the National Sports Club of India waving flags and dancing to Desi Boyz in the aisles long before the final two matches of the PKL season began. The Patna Pirates faced off against the Bangaluru Bulls in the third-place play-off while the Jaipur Pink Panthers and U Mumba, the home team, were fighting for the trophy.
The atmosphere in the Sardar Patel stadium was bouncing and throbbing in a manner reminiscent of the first season of the IPL. Bollywood music burst through the speakers and there was no let-up even during the matches. Kabaddi, it turns out, is a sport that gets better with a soundtrack.
The partisan crowd made no secret of its loyalty to U Mumba by soundly booing the very mention of the other finalist, Jaipur Pink Panthers, owned by Abhishek Bachchan. The actor was courtside as always, joined this time by his wife Aishwarya Rai Bachchan. Celebrity sightings gave fans another reason to turn up.
The glamour and music were balanced by the traditional values of kabaddi. Every single player, and the match officials, bent down and touched the court as they ran out. The last time an India cricketer paid homage to a cricket pitch was Sachin Tendulkar after his final Test match in Mumbai. And he was literally one in a billion.
The roar when the U Mumba players ran out of the tunnel was so loud, you couldn&rsquo;t hear the person sitting next to you. It felt like the stadium had enough energy to light up all of South Mumbai for the night. 
 &ldquo;We want kabaddi to become our nation&rsquo;s no. 1 sport,&rdquo; Ela Gore said. &ldquo;First kabaddi, then cricket. &ldquo;
Gore, a 21-year-old engineering student, followed the entire season on television before dragging her mother and father to watch the final so she could support U-Mumba and the &ldquo;spirit of kabaddi&rdquo;. Her sentiments weren&rsquo;t unusual either.
Twenty-seven year Lubdha Sheth, a graphic designer, was drawn to the PKL because she did design work for U Mumba. She and her husband Chirag naturally ended up watching the first few matches. There was no going back.
&ldquo;This sport is way more interesting than cricket,&rdquo; Lubdha said. &ldquo;In this game every second counts and that makes it more exciting,&rdquo; Chirag said. Asked if he would rather watch the Mumbai Indians in the IPL or U Mumba in thePKL, Chirag said: &ldquo;It&rsquo;s a tough call.&rdquo;
For Pradeep Yadav though, it is no contest. He grew up watching inter-state kabaddi matches on a ground near his house in Kurla East and has always enjoyed watching the sport. &ldquo;It has power, energy, flexibility, timing, skill,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;Few other sports have so many aspects.&rdquo;
Attending the final was a family affair for the 33-year-old, who was accompanied by his wife and son and his brother&rsquo;s family. &ldquo;Overall, the league is very well managed. They created the hype and held matches in nice stadiums like this one where you can enjoy the match in comfort, not like an IPL match where you are sweating and hot.&rdquo;
Unfortunately for the home fans, they had to go home disappointed when Jaipur won the match comfortably. Mumba had beaten Jaipur in the opening game of the league. At that point, Navneet prayed that the teams would meet again in the final. That prayer was answered and this time around Jaipur&rsquo;s superior defense made the difference.
The first-half was close, with Mumba slashing a 15 to 8 deficit to 17 &ndash; 14 at the break. The second half would belong entirely to Jaipur though. They had already stretched their lead to 21-15 when Anup Kumar, Mumbai&rsquo;s captain and star raider, made his customary approach from the right flank. Mumba needed points fast as time was running out and Kumar was the best person to get them.
He set himself and then feinted right, before dashing left. Jaipur had four defenders to Kumar&rsquo;s left and two on the right, who dropped back trying to lure Kumar deeper into the court and cut him off from the midline. Kumar was aware of the trap but Mumba needed points. He feinted right again, then dashed left, lunging forward for a touch.
Jaipur&rsquo;s captain Gautam yelled to his team to be patient. He didn&rsquo;t want the trap sprung too early. Kumar feinted right again but this time took one step too many. He was suddenly swarmed by a blur of blue and pink and pushed out of court.
Jaipur led 22-15 lead and with Kumar on the sidelines, U Mumba would not recover.
Of course, a lot of work still needs to be done before kabaddi can claim it has achieved mainstream status. The short season is a significant hurdle. &ldquo;This is like selling something seasonally. Then shutting down the shop and going away. Now, this is January 31. This shop will now open next January. That is the biggest challenge we will face with kabaddi as well. It can&rsquo;t be a few-weeks phenomena. They have to get used to the idea that they can come and watch kabaddi,&rdquo; Uday Shankar told the Indian Express.
Meannwhile with India being the heavy favourite to win gold at the Asian Games starting later this month, the players are hoping kabaddi doesn&rsquo;t fall too far from the spotlight. &ldquo;We hope the fans remember us after this and keep watching,&rdquo; Gautam said. India also host the kabaddi world championships in December in Punjab and it remains to be seen whether the league boosts interest in the tournament. 
But if well begun is half done, then the Star Sports Pro Kabaddi League is half-way to establishing itself and the sport as a prominent part of India&rsquo;s sporting landscape. 