Australia's shock loss to Zimbabwe lifts India to No. 1 in ICC ODI rankings Australia's shock loss to Zimbabwe lifts India to No. 1 in ICC ODI rankings 
										
		World champion India has been confirmed as the number-one ranked side in the Reliance ICC ODI Team Rankings following Zimbabwe&rsquo;s three wickets victory over Australia in a triangular series match in Harare on Sunday.

India had joined Australia on top of the table after winning the third ODI in Nottingham on 30 August at 114 ratings points, but took sole possession at the coveted number-one spot after Zimbabwe recorded its first victory over Australia in 31 years. This result meant Australia has dropped three ratings points and has slipped behind South Africa and Sri Lanka into fourth position on 111 ratings points.
South Africa, following its victories over Australia and Zimbabwe, is sitting in second spot on 113 ratings points, while Sri Lanka also has 111 ratings points but is ranked above Australia in third position by a fraction of a point.
With five ODIs to be played this week, there is potential for further changes at the top of the table, depending how these matches pan out.
For world champion India to finish as the number-one ranked side, it needs to win the remaining two matches against England and then hope Australia beats South Africa either on 2 September or 6 September (if both the sides clash in the final). In this scenario, India will be on 115 ratings points, followed by South Africa, Australia and Sri Lanka (depending on the outcome of the remaining matches in the triangular series).
South Africa, which also leads the Reliance ICC Test Team Championship, can move to the top of the table if it wins its remaining two league matches as well as the potential final against Australia. If South Africa makes this happens and India also wins its last two matches, then South Africa and India will be on 115 ratings points each but South Africa will be ranked above India when the ratings are calculated beyond the decimal point.
Australia may have slipped to fourth position but it too can finish the series in number-one position if England beats India in one of the two matches and Australia defeats South Africa on 2 September and then again in the final on 6 September. In this scenario, Australia will end up on 114 ratings points, followed by India in second position, and Sri Lanka and South Africa in third and fourth spots, respectively.
To find out exactly how forthcoming series will affect the Rankings Table, please click here. The ODI and T20I Rankings tables, unlike the Test Rankings Table, are updated after every match.
Forthcoming matches
2 September &ndash; Australia v South Africa, Harare
2 September &ndash; Fourth ODI, England v India, Birmingham
4 September &ndash; Zimbabwe v South Africa, Harare
5 September &ndash; Fifth ODI, England v India, Leeds
6 September &ndash; Final. Triangular series in Harare
Press Release