Di Maria vs Balotelli: Who had the better Premier League debut? Di Maria vs Balotelli: Who had the better Premier League debut? 
										
		The run up to the latest Premier League weekend saw two blockbuster signings unveiled at rivals Manchester United and Liverpool. While the former broke the British transfer record in signing Angel Di Maria from Real Madrid for &pound;59.7 million, the latter replaced bad boy Luis Suarez with bad boy Mario Balotelli though they are not similar kinds of 'bad'.
Di Maria played 70 minutes and Balotelli played 60, but who had the better debut?

Di Maria: Playing alongside Fletcher in the centre of midfield, Di Maria marauded through the left channel (as seen in heatmap below). In a surprising long-ball approach adopted by Louis van Gaal, Di Maria's lobbed through balls were the most menacing &mdash; one of them finding Robin van Persie, who chested it down perfectly before seeing his shot blocked by Tom Heaton from a position where you would ideally see him score nine out of ten times.
The Argentine showed flashes of brilliance &mdash; otherwise vanishing for long periods when United were chasing the ball or playing it meaninglessly in defence. He then linked up with Rooney on the left and went on a blazing run down the left wing, sending a low cross towards Juan Mata who couldn't execute his first time shot towards goal. Physically, Di Maria did very well to adapt to the Premier League. He did lose out on one challenge which led to a stinging shot from David Jones and sent a few passes awry, but these can be attributed to a lack of communication and understanding with his new teammates.

In all, Di Maria created two chances, sent in three crosses and took a shot from a tight angle which was blocked. But his pace, drive and energy instantly made United look more menacing than they have in all of last season and this campaign too.
Balotelli: Brendan Rodgers had no qualms about dropping the out-of-form Philippe Coutinho for Balotelli and the Italian almost scored with just his second touch of the match &mdash; his header well kept out by Hugo Lloris. Minutes later, he headed wide a Steven Gerrard freekick and then scuffed a shot wide on an empty post with Lloris way out of position and outside his area. Balotelli's presence in the box allowed Daniel Sturridge and Raheem Sterling the freedom of roaming the channels, with both the Englishmen also benefiting from Balotelli's surprising work-rate and acceptance of defensive duties (as illustrated so well in the graphic below and his three clearances and one block).

Balotelli was his usual nonchalant self and showed terrific composure &mdash; getting up and accepting apologies for tough challenges, apologising for making hard tackles and working his socks off for not himself, but his team. Yes, he was wasteful in front of goal but it was obvious he wanted to make memorable debut and was trying too hard at times &mdash; something Rodgers will have no problem with.
If he can keep his head down and stay focused, expect goals from this guy &mdash; he gives Liverpool a great presence in the box too.
VERDICT: Balotelli without a doubt &mdash; he has Premier League experience but he gets the nod because he immediately fit Liverpool's style of play and was involved in most of their build-ups. Di Maria couldn't hide the fact that he was slightly lost &mdash; from being surrounded by the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo, Sergio Ramos, Xabi Alonso and Gareth Bale to being surrounded &mdash; with all due respect &mdash; by Ashley Young, Tyler Blackett, Darren Fletcher and Antonio Valencia. He will, however, have come to terms with the magnitude of his importance in the United team and is expected to thrive with this responsibility.