Danica finishes career best at Atlanta Danica finishes career best at Atlanta Danica Patrick, who drives the No. 10 Chevrolet, is in her second full-time season in the NASCAR Sprint Cup Series and her second with Stewart-Haas Racing and crew chief Tony Gibson. Patrick, who spent seven years driving open-wheel cars in the IndyCar Series (2005-11), has four career top-10 finishes and one career pole in Sprint Cup.Danica Patrick snuck up on everybody Saturday night in the Oral-B USA 500 at Atlanta Motor Speedway to post not only her best result of the season but the best finish of  her Sprint Cup career.WHERE SHE STARTED: Qualified 27th, failing to advance to the second round of knockout qualification.WHERE SHE FINISHED: Bested  her seventh-place finish at Kansas Speedway earlier this year, coming home sixth on a green-white-checkered finish. The result was also the best ever for a woman at Atlanta Motor Speedway. Janet Guthrie finished 10th in March 1978.WHAT SHE SAID: "It was a long night. That race felt like it was 700 miles. Sometimes when you're running well they feel like that because you're hoping it stays there and keeps going well and you keep improving and you don't lose it. And there were definitely a couple of times later in the race that we fell back. The middle of the race the car was very good. We took a little step back but then it came back at the end. Gibson just reset everything to where we were when we were running well."Obvioulsly the pit stop at the end that was 11 seconds was so good. There was a couple of rough ones in the beginning but that made up for all of it because it put us seventh for that restart, had a good line on the inside and didn't get caught up on the outside."I'm just so happy for the team. We've really had pretty fast cars for quite a while now and not really great finishes to show for it. So this is for everybody, for Go Daddy.SMOKE IS BACK:  Tony Stewart runs into wall in NASCAR returnHOW IT UNFOLDED: There was no indication in the early stages of the race that this would be a night to remember for Patrick. By the time the first caution came out on lap 39, Patrick had already been lapped by the leader — teammate Kevin Harvick — but she was the first car one lap down and was given the free pass to get back on the lead lap. A similar situation occurred on the third caution of the night. Patrick had once again gone a lap down but received the free pass after the caution on lap 118.Patrick fought a tight handling car in the first third of the race but her drive began to improve as the night wore on. She began a steady march into the top 15 and was racing in the top 10 by lap 300. Her final kick was set up by a stellar last pit stop that let her line up seventh on the inside — the preferred line at the track on restarts. On the second green-white-checkered attempt, Patrick restarted fourth — on the outside — next to race winner Kasey Kahne. And though she could't hold her position to land her first ever top-five, she was able bring the car home in a career-best finish.NEXT RACE: Federated Auto Parts 400, Sept. 6 at Richmond International Raceway (7:30 p.m. ET, ABC).LAST TIME: Finished four laps down in 30th-place after starting 36th on the 0.75-mile oval on Sept. 7, 2013.PHOTOS: Danica Patrick's NASCAR career