Oakland caused their own problems in the AL West Oakland caused their own problems in the AL West It’s too early to start writing the script to “Gutterball,” in which Brad Pitt throws an ice bucket on the hottest team in baseball, which happens to be his own.
After all, the Oakland Athletics are five-and-a-half games to the good in the American League wild-card standings.
And it’s also true that you shouldn’t judge a trade for at least a few zodiac periods.
But the same people who hail A’s general manager Billy Beane as half-Hawking, half-Archimedes are coughing violently as they look at the A.L. West standings.
The A’s scored four runs in four games at Anaheim and got swept by the rampaging Angels. They trail the Angels by five games in a division they led by two games when they dealt left-fielder Yoenis Cespedes to Boston for left-hander Jon Lester on July 31.
The theory was that Lester, even as rental furniture, would team with Jeff Samardzija, Sonny Gray and Scott Kazmir to make the A’s an impossible matchup in the post-season.
The A’s were already the highest-scoring team in the league, and surely Brandon Moss and Josh Donaldson would keep the offense humming with Cespedes gone.
But Oakland went 12-17 in August as the Angels, with their powerful new bullpen, took off.
Oakland has to deal with Seattle six times in the next two weeks to protect its own wild-card status.
What happened?
Well, it appears Cespedes was more of a central figure than anybody thought, at least outside the A’s clubhouse. Moss hit .178 in August and has not had an RBI since Aug. 12. Overall, Oakland scored 103 runs in those 29 games.
Cespedes, who can become a free agent after next season, is a Home Run Derby winner who gets an opponent’s attention. In Atlanta, B.J. Upton scored from first base on a single to leftfield against Oakland. With Cespedes out there he wouldn’t have even considered going to third.
Meanwhile, the A’s lost closer Sean Doolittle, and even though Lester and Samardzija have been fine, Gray (1-4 in August, 4.38 ERA) and Kazmir (2-4, 6.28) have left the rails.
Oakland’s front-office brainiacs have another month to get back the A&#8217;s back on the program. But they might have created a problem even they can’t solve.
									
								
																	&nbsp;