England should attack spinners and force them to change tactics, says Ganguly England should attack spinners and force them to change tactics, says Ganguly 
										
		Former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly has said flawed approach to spin bowling and failure to score runs freely are the main factors that are troubling England in the ODIs.
As India close in on a series-win in the ODIs, Ganguly feels that the "problems of Alastair Cook and Co. are as much in their heads as out on the pitch".

"There are two things I think England are getting wrong when it comes to their one-day batting. They're thinking getting to 300 is a problem and is such a hard thing to do. But why? Their mental approach has to change. Why is it that an India team can just come over here and get 300," Ganguly was quoted as saying by The Mirror.
"The second thing is England's approach to spin. As soon as they see a pitch where spin might play a part they struggle and they tell themselves they will struggle," he added.
Ganguly, who is now a TV pundit with SkySports, said if England don't change their mental approach they may well risk forever missing out on the big prizes.
He feels that England batsmen should take the game to the Indian spinners and force them to change their tactics.
"They should take the game to the spinners and force them to change what they are doing. Come down the pitch, but do it as late as possible. Don't just give it away, which is what I think Alastair Cook did. He had three dot balls and then decided he was coming no matter what and he gave it away.
"You have to find a way to play spin better than this. You might not score off a few balls but you can make those up later in your innings if you don't give it away," he added.
India, who lost the Test series 1-3, lead the five-match ODI series 2-0 after three outings and are now eyeing a series-win against England. They won the third ODI here Saturday comfortably by six wickets and had beaten England in the second ODI by 133 runs via the Duckworth Lewis method. The first ODI was washed out due to rain.
England's batting coach Mark Ramprakash said the batsmen have to adopt methods of putting pressure on the spinners.
"The players need to be open to adopting methods where they can put the pressure back on the spin bowlers. That means good footwork and a good clear plan of where they are looking to score. Confidence is key at this level. Using your feet and getting down the pitch sends a message to the bowler even if you don't quite get there," he said.
IANS