How Falcao's signing could change the way Manchester United plays How Falcao's signing could change the way Manchester United plays 
										
		No one saw it coming. Even after the draw to Burnley on Saturday, Manchester United fans were clamouring for a midfielder and a centre-back &mdash; not a striker of Radamel Falcao's quality. This despite seeing two guilt-edged chances go begging in the first half at Turf Moor. One of them fell to Robin van Persie and the other to Juan Mata &mdash; both on their favoured left foot &mdash; the former hitting it straight at the goalkeeper and the latter not even connecting with it. Wayne Rooney didn't even hit the target in the game.

They are the three players who will be most affected by Falcao's move. From the looks of it, Mata, Rooney and RVP will all need to accommodate the big-name signings of Falcao and Angel Di Maria. 
Here's how both signings, and more specifically Falcao, will blend in at United:
Mata's position under threat: If Louis van Gaal persists with the 3-5-2 system and supposing he has a full roster to choose from, then Mata could find himself the odd man out. This would depend on how much he trusts his midfielders and defence. Judging by United's current form, Van Gaal could play two defensive midfielders behind Di Maria as a No. 10. The pairing could be Ander Herrera/Michael Carrick or Herrera/Darren Fletcher. You could throw Marouane Fellaini into the mix as well. Luke Shaw/Daley Blind could play at left wing-back and Rafael/Antonio Valencia at right wing-back. That leaves no space for Mata, who is not known for his defensive work anyway.
It would also leave the trio of Di Maria, Van Persie and Falcao as attackers.
https://twitter.com/FirstpostSports/status/506394352466149376
Drop Rooney to midfield: Dropping Rooney to midfield alongside Herrera/Carrick/Fletcher/Fellaini would mean more dynamism through the middle of the park and a free role for Di Maria behind the strikers &mdash; something like Liverpool's system where Raheem Sterling operates in the hole with Steven Gerrard and Jordan Henderson protecting him. 
Rooney is very effective defensively and creative going forward. He is club skipper, so it's hard to see him being left out. A drop in midfield would mean fewer goals but it would be a delight to see him set the tempo of the game along with Di Maria and two lethal strikers in the box. 
Risk having one unhappy striker on the bench: Let's say no changes are made to player roles. That would result in one of Van Persie, Rooney or Falcao sitting on the bench. Eventually a duo will hit form, which means a prolonged non-starter's role for one of them. 
Di Maria still qualifies as United's most creative player and there's no way Van Gaal would sacrifice United's biggest signing to play three strikers in any given attacking shape. There is no way he's sitting out games unless he gets injured or United need to rest him.
Out of the three strikers, Van Persie would be the one to drop on current form. He has lacked the cutting edge since his wonder-header against Spain in the opening round of the World Cup and there are fitness concerns as well. What Falcao's purchase does is give United a world-class option up front if either of Rooney or RVP are injured. 
In case they're all fit, then Van Gaal can look forward to an almighty headache or an overhaul of his 3-5-2 system for one which accommodates all three forwards.