Redskins Sign 8 Players to Practice Squad Redskins Sign 8 Players to Practice Squad Redskins Sign 8 Players to Practice Squad

						
		
	
	

The Redskins signed eight players to their practice squad on Sunday and have a tentative agreement pending with another, according to a league source.
Washington had not added 2014 sixth-round draft pick Lache Seastrunk to the 10-man practice squad as of Sunday afternoon. Seastrunk, a speedy running back from Baylor University, was cut by the team on Saturday and cleared waivers, but he is now eligible to sign with any NFL team.
The practice squad players signed: Running back Chris Thompson, cornerbacks Chase Minnifield and Richard Crawford, safety Phillip Thomas, nose tackle Robert Thomas, wide receiver Nick Williams, tight end Ted Bolser and offensive lineman Tevita Stevens.
Thompson was in the mix for one of the team’s final running back slots before being cut on Saturday. He was a 2013 draft pick and began last year as Washington’s top kick returner before a shoulder injury shortened his season.
Phillip Thomas missed all of last season with a Lisfranc sprain in his left foot. He was expected to play key minutes as a reserve at safety this season before injuries limited his playing time this preseason.
Crawford, a 2012 draft pick, had a key punt return to set up a late-season win against Baltimore as a rookie. That was part of Washington’s magical run to the NFC East title. But he tore ligaments in his knee last summer and never made it to the regular season and struggled to regain his form on both special teams and at corner.
Bolser was a seventh-round pick this past May, but found a numbers crunch at tight end with veterans Logan Paulsen, Niles Paul and Jordan Reed.
Williams appeared in five games last season for the Redskins and has experience as a return man. He caught two touchdown passes during the preseason.
Minnifield battled a hamstring injury during camp and was also behind several established players at cornerback and a promising rookie in Bashaud Breeland.
Stevens, an interior lineman with some experience at center, spent last year on the team’s practice squad, too.
Robert Thomas is insurance at nose tackle, where veteran Chris Neild torn an ACL in his knee during Thursday&#8217;s preseason finale against Tampe Bay. But Washington chose to keep seven defensive linemen ahead of Thomas at final cuts on Saturday. Barry Cofield is the lone true nose tackle on the active 53-man roster. 
The Redskins are also expected to sign safety Akeem Jordan if he clears waivers on Monday. They released him on Sunday to make room for safety Duke Ihenacho, who was cut by the Denver Broncos and claimed on waivers. Coaches raved about Jordan’s knowledge of the playbook and he is a relentless special teams player. But he is a work-in-progress at safety.
That would leave nine spots filled – though Washington can drop a practice squad player at any time for another one – and one final opening. As of late Sunday afternoon, a source close to Seastrunk said he had not signed with any team. 

 Redskins News And Rumors
RG3 Statue Unveiled at Baylor&#8217;s New&nbsp;StadiumRedskins Sign 8 Players to Practice&nbsp;SquadRedskins Claim Safety Duke Ihenacho Off&nbsp;WaiversRedskins Finalize 53-Man Roster With Few&nbsp;Surprises
			
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
							
					
			
		
		


		
						
			
	
				
		Pet of the Week: Bodie the Pit Bull Mix	