Siemian needs to be better if Northwestern is going to be better Siemian needs to be better if Northwestern is going to be better  Trevor Siemian's debut as Northwestern's lone quarterback wasn't as smashing as many had hoped.
The Cats looked lost on both sides of the ball through more than half of their season-opening loss to Cal on Saturday, and Siemian was no exception. A lot of short throws and a lot of bad throws made up a part of the reason the Northwestern passing game was ineffective against a defense it should've clobbered. In fact, it did clobber the Cal defense last season when these two teams hooked up. Cal finished last season 1-11.
But that didn't happen Saturday.
“I think all of our offensive skill, when we get to the passing game, is going to have one of those days that they’re going to look back and wish they had back again," head coach Pat Fitzgerald said after the game. "(Siemian) squeezed the ball a little bit and sailed some that were uncharacteristic. I can’t remember the last time I saw the ball sail like that on him since he’s been here. So he squeezed it a little bit too hard, which now all of a sudden the ball is sailing a bit on him. And then we had a lot of drops. There’s enough blame to go around — timing, execution, things of that nature — but there were a lot of chances there that we had that we just didn’t get accomplished.”

Siemian had a few highlights worth replaying. He hit Cameron Dickerson with a pass in the second quarter which Dickerson ran the rest of the way for a 54-yard touchdown. And Siemian also factored in the highlight of the day, a double-pass trick play that saw him throw the ball across the field to Jayme Taylor, who then threw it back to Siemian, who ran 17 yards for a touchdown. That ended with a pretty awesome dive for the pylon and swung the momentum decidedly in Northwestern's favor.
Though that pass play was designed, many of Siemian's seven official rushing attempts weren't, and that's something Fitzgerald said might change a little in style.
"He's going to have to move, and that's part of being a quarterback. He's more athletic than people give him credit for," Fitzgerald said. "I'd like to see him slide a few more times. He took some hits that just didn't make sense to me. He'll learn. It's his second or third game that he has been the guy the whole game. He will be much better with the experience. I thought as the game went along, he started to settle into his game."

It's true that Siemian, as was the case with the entire Northwestern team, started turning things around as the game progressed. But, as was the case with the entire Northwestern team, time ran out and the initial hole was too deep.
Perhaps a fifth quarter would have seen the game go the Wildcats' way. Instead, Siemian tried to thread an unthreadable needle and was intercepted with fewer than two minutes left in the game.
Siemian undoubtedly needs to be better if Northwestern is going to be better than it was Saturday.