EDGY's Top 25 Power Rankings: Week 2 EDGY's Top 25 Power Rankings: Week 2  Last Week: Beat Milwaukee Marquette, 44-0This Week: vs Edwardsville The Ramblers take care of business and now will host a very strong Edwardsville team this week.
Last Week: Beat Indian Trail (Wisc.), 35-0This Week: at Homewood-Floosmoor The Patriots will get a huge road test on Friday at H-F.
Last Week: Beat Wheaton South, 21-10This Week: at Morton The Hilltoppers will look to beat Morton this week.
Last Week: Lost to St. Joe Philly, 28-27This Week: vs Morgan Park @ Gately The Caravan will now get after it against the Morgan Park Mustangs.
Last Week: Beat Harlan, 48-0This Week: vs Stevenson The first of several regular season exams begin this week hosting Stevenson.
Last Week: Beat Wheaton North, 38-28This Week: at Lake Zurich The Trojans will need to defend themselves this week at Lake Zurich, which runs the an almost identical offense as they do.
Last Week: Beat Bolingbrook, 23-15This Week: at Addison Trail The Red Devils will look to get contributions from everybody every day.
Last Week: Beat Montini Catholic, 36-35This Week: at Wheaton South The Hawks offense shows it's as explosive as ever in a stunning come-from-behind win last week over Montini.
Last Week: Lost to Hinsdale Central, 23-15This Week: at Romeoville The Raiders have plenty to clean up starting this week against district rival Romeoville.
Last Week: Beat Fremd, 10-7This Week: vs Cary-Grove The Bears will also need to defend their own style of offense when they host Cary-Grove.
Last Week: Beat Naperville Central, 20-6This Week: at Oswego The Warriors looked to be in mid-season form in beating Naperville Central.
Last Week: Beat Indy Arsenal, 28-9This Week: at Geneva The Bulldogs will need to play well on the road this week in Geneva.
Last Week: Beat Lincoln-Way East, 49-34This Week: at Leyden The Huskies answer any questions you might of had about their offense in a 49-34 beating of Lincoln-Way East.
Last Week: Beat Bloomington, 42-7This Week: vs Riverside-Brookfield The Road Runners now take on neighborhood rival Riverside-Brookfield.
Last Week: Beat Simeon, 28-26This Week: vs Dunbar The Mustangs withstand a wild last second Simeon comeback for the win.
Last Week: Beat Batavia, 40-36This Week: vs Waubonsie Valley The Panthers offense will always be in the game behind junior QB Steven Frank.
Last Week: Lost to Waubonsie Valley, 20-6This Week: at Neuqua Valley The Redhawks offense needs to get on track and quickly starting this week in South Naperville.
Last Week: Lost to Glenbard West, 21-10This Week: vs Maine South The Tigers will need to find their running game.
Last Week: Lost to Maine South, 36-35This Week: vs East St. Louis The Broncos go from the fire into the fire hosting East St. Louis on Saturday.
Last Week: Beat Neuqua Valley, 15-14This Week: at Thornton Township The Huskies felt disrespected in the preseason rankings, so they went out and earned some respect. 
Last Week: Beat Joliet Catholic, 21-10This Week: vs Minooka The Celtics passing offense is legit, and this is a team that will get better as the year progresses.
Last Week: Lost to OPRF, 49-34This Week: at Lincoln-Way Central 49 points allowed last week? I can remember seasons when the East defense didn't allow 49 points.
Last Week: Lost to Naperville North, 15-14This Week: vs Naperville Central The Wildcats will need to get things back on track, otherwise an 0-2 start awaits.
Last Week: Lost to Centerville, Ohio, 33-28This Week: vs Batavia It just doesn't get any easier for the Panthers this week in hosting Batavia.
Last Week: Beat West Aurora, 41-23This Week: vs Richards The Vikings defense will get seriously tested against Richards this week.