NFL not inclined to press Jerry Jones tampering charges NFL not inclined to press Jerry Jones tampering charges May 8, 2014; New York, NY, USA; A general view of a helmet and NFL shield logo before the start of the 2014 NFL Draft at Radio City Music Hall. Mandatory Credit: Adam Hunger-USA TODAY SportsNFL    Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones found himself in a bit hot water after a feature on him was published by ESPN. In the piece was a conversation between him and Minnesota Vikings running back Adrian Peterson. In the conversation, Jones and Peterson are talking about him joining the Cowboys at a later date in the running back&rsquo;s career. The problem is that Peterson is under contract with the Vikings, and this could be considered tampering. That means the NFL could pursue punishing Jones, but Peter King of The Monday Morning Quarterback doesn&rsquo;t think the NFL will pursue tampering charges. And the reasoning for the NFL&rsquo;s disinterest in going into the situation further? Jones imbibing&nbsp;a little too heavily and being under the influence. From Peter King of The MMQB: I think the league is not going to press a tampering case against Jerry Jones for his remarks in the great ESPN profile of him about Adrian Peterson. &ldquo;Tipsy and waiving his arms,&rsquo;&rsquo; Jones, according to the story, got handed a cell phone with Peterson on it after a George Strait concert at the Cowboys&rsquo; stadium, and seemed to be speaking with Peterson about making him a Cowboy someday. Talking to a couple of people with knowledge of the league&rsquo;s view of the story, I didn&rsquo;t sense much interest in the league pursuing anything against Jones when he was seriously into the Johnnie Walker Blue Label near midnight. Reading the passage, I wonder how much of the conversation with Peterson he remembers. Now, that isn&rsquo;t to say he should be talking to any employee of another team about anything other than having a nice day. And I&rsquo;m sure he&rsquo;ll get a reminder of that from someone in the league office. But it doesn&rsquo;t sound like the league&rsquo;s interested in whacking Jones for it. It looks like that drinking issue that Jones was shocked was covered so extensively is what is going to save his hide in this case.