Things get squirrelly during dramatic race at Atlanta Things get squirrelly during dramatic race at Atlanta 
                
                
           
                    All the drama and excitement at Atlanta Motor Speedway Sunday makes you wonder if NASCAR is really doing the right thing moving the Labor Day weekend race back to Darlington.

It is, of course, but Atlanta sure did justice to its final holiday weekend date. And it has to excite fans to know that the track has the second race of the season next year, following the Daytona 500.

The Oral-B 500 had about everything you could ask for, capped by two green-white-checkered restarts and a thrilling battle for the win between Kasey Kahne and Matt Kenseth.

You knew it was going to be a strange night when Kevin Harvick almost ran over a squirrel early in the race.

By the time it was over, things got squirrelly for Harvick and several others.



Our winners and losers.

Winners

 &mdash; Call him Mr. September. Kahne has raced his way into the Chase late in the regular season each of the past two seasons and he did it again Sunday, this time in more dramatic fashion. Kahne&rsquo;s only shot this time was to win, and he did, scoring a thrilling victory at Atlanta. Though he has struggled most of this year, Kahne reminded fans why he&rsquo;s still one of the most talented drivers in the series.

 &mdash; Just when you are about to give up on her and conclude that she really doesn&rsquo;t belong in the Sprint Cup Series, she does something to change your mind and prove her vast potential. Patrick has had a horrible season, but every now and then she proves that can indeed drive a stock car. She was outstanding at Atlanta, battling from a lap down twice and racing the top contenders to score a career-best sixth-place finish. If only she could do that every week, or at least with some consistency.

 &mdash; Forget that he wrecked and finished 41st. That doesn&rsquo;t matter, not at all. The important thing is that Stewart was back behind the wheel of his racecar after three of the worst weeks of his life. That he was back in the NASCAR garage and back with his Stewart-Haas team three weeks after the tragic accident that killed young driver Kevin Ward Jr. meant the world to a lot of people, including Stewart. That he was well received by both his peers and fans meant even more. And Stewart proved early in the race that he still has the drive and determination to win. Regardless of what happens from here on out, returning at Atlanta was a big first step for Stewart.

&mdash; Kenseth has had a really solid season &mdash; he&rsquo;s up to third in points &mdash; he just hasn&rsquo;t been able to break through with a win yet. He&rsquo;s getting closer, though. He led 53 laps at Atlanta and battled Kahne door-to-door for the win. That Kenseth and his Joe Gibbs Racing teammate Denny Hamlin finally found some speed on a fast, 1.5-mile oval is a sign that they are gaining on it. And that has to be disconcerting for Hendrick, Penske and the rest of the competition.

 &mdash; Like Kenseth, Hamlin also was strong, leading 37 laps and finishing third. He also was fast last week at Bristol before getting taken out by Kevin Harvick. Hamlin has six top-10 finishes in his last eight races and is looking like he might be a threat in the Chase after all.

 &mdash; Biffle does not have a car to contend for a win, but he keeps gutting out top-10 finishes to keep himself in Chase contention. This one was crucial. With Clint Bowyer having trouble and losing two spots in points, Biffle is in position to earn the final Chase spot unless there is another new winner at Richmond.

Losers

&mdash; Bowyer had trouble at the worst possible time when his shifter broke at Atlanta, and you could hear the fury and frustration in his voice. Bowyer not only fell two spots in points, but he is now 23 points behind Biffle in the battle for the final Chase spot. He almost has to win at Richmond to get in. And he will race there while having to revisit the unpleasant topic of the cheating scandal that he and his Michael Waltrip Racing teammates were involved in at Richmond last year.

 &mdash; Wow. Just wow. The question is not whether Harvick can win again, but just how many races will his Stewart-Haas team blow for him this year. Harvick was taken out in a late wreck at Atlanta, but he lost the race thanks to a pit crew that could not hold the lead throughout the race. Harvick dominated the race, which he has done often this season, but he and his team &ldquo;got murdered&rdquo; on pit road. It is shocking that Stewart-Haas Racing has not made major changes to Harvick&rsquo;s team by now. If it doesn&rsquo;t soon, he has no shot at the championship.

&mdash; Menard, who also is trying to win to make the Chase, tried to steal one at Atlanta with a late two-tire pit stop. But it backfired and took out two top contenders. When Menard couldn&rsquo;t get going on a green-white-checkered restart, it resulted in a wreck that took out Harvick and Joey Logano. It&rsquo;s a wonder both drivers weren&rsquo;t furious with him. But give Menard credit, he was doing everything he could to win &mdash; just like Kenseth and Kahne.

&mdash; Busch has had seemingly everything imaginable go wrong in the past four weeks &mdash; from wrecks to blown engines to speeding penalties. This one, though, appears to have been on him. First, Busch slid up into Tony Stewart, sending them both into the wall. Then, late in the race, he got into an on-track skirmish with Martin Truex Jr., which resulted in both of them wrecking. He finished 16th, which is much better than his four straight finishes of 36th or worse. But you get the sense that this season is getting away from him in a hurry.

&mdash; Keselowski ran well all night, but wound up crashing when Hamlin slowed to get to pit road and Keselowski had to check up and slammed the wall. He wound up finishing 39th &mdash; his third poor finish in the past five races. Keselowski is running well, but he can&rsquo;t seem to put more than two good races together in a row, which will be crucial in the Chase.

&nbsp;
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                