Teardown: Kyle Busch has another eventful race, disappointing finish Teardown: Kyle Busch has another eventful race, disappointing finish 
                
                
           
                    HAMPTON, Ga. &mdash; Kyle Busch can&rsquo;t seem to have a night lately where things don&rsquo;t go wrong.

It appeared he would get through the Oral-B 500 on Sunday with just minimal damage at Atlanta Motor Speedway.

Busch tangled early with Tony Stewart and was mired between 15th and 20th for much of the race. That was until he tagged Martin Truex Jr. with less than two laps remaining.

The two traded more paint after the initial contact, with Truex livid at Busch. After the race, Truex parked his car next to Busch&rsquo;s hauler, got out and yelled at Busch as Busch sat in his car.

Truex then got out and had a brief discussion with Busch crew chief Dave Rogers.

&ldquo;Kyle, for whatever reason, ran into the back of me, causing pretty good damage to our car,&rdquo; Truex said. &ldquo;I passed him clean earlier and then he comes back and hits me from behind. It was totally uncalled for and hard to figure out why he did what he did.&rdquo;

Rogers said Busch told him the contact was unintentional.

&ldquo;He said he was expecting Martin to go in on the bottom, and Kyle was bonzaing on the top trying to get the pass and Martin surprised him by going up top,&rdquo; Rogers said. &ldquo;Kyle said he got to the brake but got to the brake too late and caused a huge mess.&rdquo;

Rogers doesn&rsquo;t see the issue between the two drivers lingering although he noted they have always raced each other hard.

&ldquo;(Truex) kept it peaceful,&rdquo; Rogers said. &ldquo;He just said what was on his mind. I think that&rsquo;s acceptable. It didn&rsquo;t get out of control. Martin told Kyle what he thought, Kyle tried to explain what happened and I think they agreed to disagree tonight.&rdquo;

Busch finished 16th; Truex was 23rd.

&ldquo;We just have had a hard time executing lately,&rdquo; Rogers said. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t even want to call it bad luck. We just haven&rsquo;t been executing.&rdquo;

Here&rsquo;s a look back at the Atlanta weekend:



Kasey Kahne, on the final two restarts. He gained positions each time and was able to pass Matt Kenseth smoothly coming to the white flag. For a guy who hasn&rsquo;t had the best restarts (remember Indianapolis?), this was huge as it got him into the Chase.



Denny Hamlin slowing on the track as it appeared he was about to pit and then never pitting. The move resulted in Brad Keselowski going into the wall and suffering damage. It was one of the many bizarre parts of the day and it also hurt the track position of his teammate Joey Logano. Getting slow enough at Atlanta to get to pit road is tricky, and Hamlin may have been the victim of circumstance. For Keselowski, he described it as a &quot;(expletive) sandwich.&quot;



The hot weather at Atlanta on Sunday likely will help fans approve of the switch of the Atlanta date from Labor Day this year to March 1 next year, the week after the Daytona 500. The key to the AMS attendance will be how many fans will travel from Daytona to Atlanta and just tack&nbsp;on another week to their vacation.



Winless drivers win this late in the season. No winless driver, with the exception of one of the road courses and Daytona, has won since late May. Kahne&rsquo;s victory brought excitement as he qualified for the Chase.



A Nationwide race with one lead change. It was not exciting. Granted, Kevin Harvick had to have a great race to make it that way, but still, that one was mostly a snoozer.



&ldquo;It was just an unbelievable way to make the Chase.&rdquo;

&ndash;Kasey Kahne
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                