ISL 2014: Kerala Blasters snap up Barisic and Orji to bolster attack ISL 2014: Kerala Blasters snap up Barisic and Orji to bolster attack 
										
		Indian Super League (ISL) team Kerala Blasters announced today that it has signed up Andrew Barisic and Penn Orji to add more firepower to their frontline for the forthcoming tournament.
Trevor Morgan, assistant coach, stated, "We are delighted to sign on Andrew and Penn as part of this wonderful team. Their skills and experience will help us bolster our frontline attack. Kerala Blasters is a truly special team and Andrew and Penn will bring their own brand of uniqueness to the Kerala Blasters."

Andrew signed his first professional contract in 2004 with Melbourne Knights, and then left in the summer of 2006 to play for Germany-based Oberliga Nord Club, Arminia Hannover. In December 2007 he signed with his former club Melbourne Knights in the Victorian Premier League, followed by stints with Gold Coast United, Arema Indonesia and East Bengal. He played for Hong Kong First Division League Club South China in the 2013-2014 season.
David James, marquee player and team manager of team said, "Andrew is a welcome addition to the team, with previous experience in not only India, but different countries and cultures. A regular goal scorer, he will be a crucial member of a very competitive squad."
The Canberra-born 28 year old striker is thrilled about playing in the ISL: "I am delighted to be selected for the Kerala Blasters. This is an exciting time in Indian football and I am looking forward to playing back in India again. I feel privileged to bring my passion and determination for success to the Kerala fans and under the watchful eye of such a successful and iconic owner, Sachin Tendulkar. I am determined to work hard and play harder."
23-year-old Nigeria born Penn is an exciting midfielder and made his debut for JCT in 2009 and was a regular face of East Bengal from 2010-2013. He played for Mohammedan Sporting Club in the I-League in the 2013-14 season.