Could Justin Jackson emerge as feature back for Northwestern? Could Justin Jackson emerge as feature back for Northwestern?  Right now, it's running back by committee at Northwestern.
Pat Fitzgerald will tell you as much, and that's exactly what happened in the Cats' season-opening loss to Cal on Saturday.
Northwestern utilized four different running backs: Treyvon Green, Warren Long, Solomon Vault and Justin Jackson.
None of those ball-carriers had a significant number of carries — Green had the most with 13 — and the team combined for a less-than-impressive 108 rushing yards (though trailing much of the game meant an awful lot of passing).

But if there was a bright spot to be found among that group, it was Jackson, a true freshman. The Glenbard North product finished as the team's leading rusher, with 40 yards and a touchdown on eight carries.
“He’s a very dynamic back," Fitzgerald said after the game. "I think you saw all of our guys get at least a few touches, and it’ll probably be that way for a while here, especially early (in order to) get a good feel for who’s the hot hand, who’s a guy that’s doing the things, who’s moving the ball and being run efficient for us. So I think overall as a group there was some good and bad. But I thought Justin played well.”
It wasn't so much the numbers, though, as the way he did it. Jackson turned in a few impressive carries that included the shedding of multiple tacklers, including his seven-yard touchdown run. And he's got some moves, too.

“Justin Jackson can play," wide receiver Tony Jones said. "He’s impressed me throughout camp. A guy who’s got great speed, great vision. He’s one of those guys who they say can make you miss in a telephone booth. He’s that good. But he’s young, he’s going to keep growing, keep learning, and I definitely think that he’ll help us.”
The Cats are still obviously looking for a replacement for the departed Venric Mark, and though Fitzgerald is rightly set on testing out all four of these backs in the season's early stages, Jackson's ability might make him a featured back by year's end.