Chase for the Sprint Cup: What winless drivers must do at Richmond to advance Chase for the Sprint Cup: What winless drivers must do at Richmond to advance 
                
                
           
                    HAMPTON, Ga. &mdash; With one race left, there are only two spots available for the Chase for the Sprint Cup.

Fourteen drivers are locks in the new 16-driver Chase, where the regular-season champ gets an automatic bid and&nbsp;the final 15 spots are available to top-30 drivers based on wins,&nbsp;then points. Drivers must attempt to qualify or race each weekend to be eligible or get a waiver,&nbsp;as Tony Stewart has gotten.

Thirteen drivers have wins and, as long as they show up Saturday night at Richmond International Raceway, are in the Chase by virtue of being locked into the top&nbsp;30:

Five are three-race winners: Jeff Gordon, Dale Earnhardt Jr., Joey Logano, Brad Keselowski and Jimmie Johnson.

Two are two-race winners: Carl Edwards and Kevin Harvick.

Six are one-race winners: Kasey Kahne, Kyle Busch, Denny Hamlin, Kurt Busch, Aric Almirola and AJ Allmendinger.

That means there will be two or three spots available based on points.

One driver has clinched a spot on points: Matt Kenseth.

There are four drivers who could possibly get in on points if they don&rsquo;t win: Ryan Newman, Greg Biffle, Clint Bowyer and Kyle Larson.

Newman has a 19-point edge on Greg Biffle, a 42-point edge on Bowyer and a 43-point edge on Larson.

If Newman finishes 18th or better at Richmond, he definitely is in the Chase. All he has to do is not lose 19 points &mdash; which is pretty much 19 positions, although drivers get one point for leading a lap and another point for leading the most laps. Newman currently holds the tiebreaker (best finish) over Biffle. As long as he finishes 41st, he can&rsquo;t lose that spot on points to Bowyer or Larson.

If a non-winless driver takes Richmond, then there would be one more spot available on points. Biffle is 23 points ahead of Bowyer and 24 points ahead of Larson. As long as Biffle finishes 22nd, Bowyer and Larson can&rsquo;t advance to the Chase without a win and Biffle would advance as long as none of the other winless drivers takes Richmond.

Bowyer and Larson, of course, could make the Chase with a win at Richmond.

Finally, there are 15 other drivers who could punch their ticket to the Chase at Richmond, but&nbsp;can only do it with a win.

There are 13 who have a win-and-in scenario: Paul Menard, Austin Dillon, Jamie McMurray, Brian Vickers, Marcos Ambrose, Casey Mears, Martin Truex Jr., Tony Stewart, Ricky Stenhouse Jr., Danica Patrick, Justin Allgaier, Michael Annett and David Gilliland.

The other two drivers, David Ragan (23 points behind 30th-place Annett) and Cole Whitt (40 points behind), could make the Chase with a win, but Ragan also would need to overtake Annett and Gilliland in the standings and Whitt would need to overtake Annett, Gilliland and Ragan.

&ldquo;It is what it is,&rdquo; Biffle said. &ldquo;We&rsquo;ve got to race as hard as we can.

&ldquo;We know if one of those guys behind us wins next week it bumps us out, so we&rsquo;ll run as hard as we can.&rdquo;
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                