Chicago Bears add long snapper, finish practice squad Chicago Bears add long snapper, finish practice squad Sept. 16, 2012; Jacksonville FL, USA; Jacksonville Jaguars long snapper Jeremy Cain (48) is ready to hike the ball for a punt against the Houston Texans linemen in the second quarter of their game at EverBank Field. The Texans won 27-7. Mandatory Credit: Phil Sears-USA TODAY SportsNFL   Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse  The Chicago Bears watched their long time long snapper Patrick Mannelly retire. They didn&rsquo;t rush out to replace him. The Bears like all NFL teams trimmed their rosters to the mandated 53 limit on Saturday and then waited for waiver claims to process before they could start adding players to their roster. Today the Bears addressed the vacancy left by Mannelly by signing long snapper Jeremy Cain.  Cain was originally signed by the Bears in 2004 after going un-drafted. He would play 2004 and 2005 with the team and also spent time on the practice squad and played as a back-up linebacker. In 2006 Cain was out of the NFL and played in the NFL Europe league&nbsp;with the Amsterdam Admirals. Cain has been well traveled in the NFL. He returned from Amsterdam to play for the Tennessee Titans, Washington Redskins, and Jacksonville Jaguars. After three years with the Jaguars he was released and signed briefly with the Bears for a 2nd stint after Mannelly was injured. After his release he signed with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers who released him this week. He has returned to Chicago for a third time. The Bears signed 10 players to the practice squad as well as the addition of Cain. Those players include wide-receivers Josh Bellamy and Rashad Ross, center Taylor Boggs, corner backs Isaiah Frey, Al Louis-Jean, and Terrance Mitchell, offensive guard Ryan Groy, linebacker DeDe Lattimore, defensive tackle Roy Philon, and defensive tackle Brandon Dunn. The Chicago Bears will kick-off their 2014 season at home on Sunday against the Buffalo Bills. Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse