Ohio State set to host major 5-star visitors for Va Tech Ohio State set to host major 5-star visitors for Va Tech Jan 3, 2014; Miami Gardens, FL, USA; Ohio State Buckeyes head coach Urban Meyer (right) talks with his players in a timeout against Clemson Tigers during the first half in the 2014 Orange Bowl college football game at Sun Life Stadium. Mandatory Credit: Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY SportsNCAA Football    Urban Meyer has hit major home runs on the recruiting trail since arriving on the Ohio State campus, but this coming weekend could be one of the biggest recruiting weekends during a season in the Meyer era.  According to a report from Cleveland.com&rsquo;s Ari Wasserman the Buckeyes are set to host multiple 5-star recruits among an impressive list of official visitors as Ohio State takes on Virginia Tech Saturday. Headlining the list is 5-star defensive end Josh Sweat, the No. 1-ranked player in the country according to the 247Sports composite rankings. This visit is vital if Ohio State wants to land themselves in the upper echelon of classes when national signing day rolls around. Also on the official visitors list is 5-star cornerback Kevin Tolliver II and two 5-star running backs in Damien Harris and Jacques Patrick. Tolliver is the No. 7-ranked player in the country and the No. 2-ranked cornerback. He comes in to this visit as a verbal commit to LSU, so this could be Ohio State&rsquo;s last chance to make an impression and hopefully work to flip him to an OSU signing this coming February. Harris may be the biggest name of those not named Josh Sweat though, as he is rated as the No. 1 running back in the 2015 class according to the 247Sports composite rankings. Right behind him in the national ratings is Patrick though, who is the No. 2-ranked running back and No. 11-ranked player out of the state of Florida. It is highly unlikely that both players end up a Buckeye, especially at running back, so this weekend could be huge in the recruitment of both players. Harris currently is picking between a five-school list that includes Alabama, Kentucky, Florida and Texas A&amp;M&nbsp;besides Ohio State. Patrick looks to be down to Florida State and Ohio State at the moment. There is also a huge 4-star quarterback on this list, as the No. 2-ranked dual-threat quarterback in the country, Torrance Gibson, will visit the Ohio State campus. Also joining those players are 3-star wide receiver Lawrence Cager and 4-star defensive end Nick Bosa (brother of current defensive end Joey Bosa). With a list like that, one could easily argue this weekend will determine the fate of the Buckeyes&rsquo; 2015 class, which currently sits at No. 15 in the nation and No. 2 in the Big Ten.