Celtics will have to be 'blown away' to trade Rajon Rondo Celtics will have to be 'blown away' to trade Rajon Rondo Apr 5, 2014; Auburn Hills, MI, USA; Boston Celtics guard Rajon Rondo (9) looks on during the third quarter against the Detroit Pistons at The Palace of Auburn Hills. Pistons beat the Celtics 115-111. Mandatory Credit: Raj Mehta-USA TODAY SportsNBA    Point guard Rajon Rondo has reportedly asked the Boston Celtics for trade. It seems like a simply concept but dealing Rondo won&rsquo;t be easy.  Jesse Blancarte of Basketball Insiders believes the Celtics will have to be &ldquo;blown away&rdquo; to trade Rondo. Rondo, age 28, is a one-time champion and four-time All-Star. When healthy, the eight-year veteran is one of the most dynamic points guards in the NBA. At this stage in his career, it is understandable that Rondo might prefer a trade to a more competitive team, rather than waiting for the Celtics to develop into a contender over several seasons. However, the Celtics will likely not move Rondo unless they are blown away by an offer from another team. But this is unlikely to happen considering the amount of quality points guards in today&rsquo;s NBA, the fact that he will soon be an unrestricted free agent and the personality issues that come with Rondo. A deal for Rondo would likely take a mix of young talent and future draft picks, which is something teams will be hesitant to give up after Rondo&rsquo;s injury and with him entering the final year of his contract. Rondo&nbsp;averaged 11.7 points, 9.8 assists, 5.5 rebounds and 1.3 steals per game. He shot 40.3% from the field, 28.9% from beyond the arc and 62.7% from the free throw line while appearing in just 30 games as he returned from his ACL injury last season.&nbsp;Rondo, who was originally&nbsp;selected by the Celtics with the 21st-overall pick in the 2006 NBA Draft, has&nbsp;put up 11.1 points, 8.4 assists, 4.6 rebounds and 1.9 steals per game while shooting 47.5% from the floor, 25.2% from three and 62.1% from the free throw line in his eight-year career. Be sure to check FanSided&rsquo;s&nbsp;official NBA page&nbsp;to keep up to date on the latest news and rumors from around the league all summer long. 