Miami Heat know signing Ray Allen is unlikely Miami Heat know signing Ray Allen is unlikely Jun 10, 2014; Miami, FL, USA; Miami Heat guard Ray Allen (34) reacts during the fourth quarter of game three of the 2014 NBA Finals against the San Antonio Spurs at American Airlines Arena. Mandatory Credit: Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY SportsNBA    Veteran guard Ray Allen left the Boston Celtics for the Miami Heat in 2012 to chase one more ring and he accomplished that goal in 2013, winning an NBA title with the Heat. Last season, Heat reached the Finals but bowed out to the San Antonio Spurs. Now, Allen is a free agent and several teams, including the Spurs, are pursuing him. Allen may opt to retire but the Heat would love to have him back.  According to Barry Jackson of&nbsp;The Miami Herald, the Heat know signing Allen is unlikely. The Heat would love for Allen to come back but know that&rsquo;s unlikely. Associates say he has been conflicted about whether to retire or sign with Cleveland or another top contender (the Clippers and Spurs also want him). Incidentally, before they were charged with trespassing, the seven teenagers who traipsed through Allen&rsquo;s home tried to placate Allen and his wife by sending them flowers. The Allens refused to accept the flowers. Allen, who was originally selected by the Minnesota Timberwolves with the fifth-overall pick in the first round of the 1996 NBA Draft, was immediately dealt to the Milwaukee Bucks. He has also played for the Seattle Supersonics and Boston Celtics. He is the all time leader in three-pointers made. Over the course of his brilliant, 18-year career, &nbsp;he has averaged 18.9 points, 4.1 rebounds and 3.4 assists per game while shooting 45.2% from the field, 40.0% from beyond the arc and 89.4% from the free throw line. Allen averaged 9.6 points, 2.8 rebounds and 2.0 assists per game while shooting 44.2% from the field, 37.5% from three and 90.5% from the free throw line last season.&nbsp;Allen Be sure to check FanSided&rsquo;s&nbsp;official NBA page&nbsp;to keep up to date on the latest news and rumors from around the league all summer long.