Astros fire Bo Porter, Dave Trembley Astros fire Bo Porter, Dave Trembley 
                
                
           
                    The Astros have parted ways with manager Bo Porter and bench coach Dave Trembley, the Houston Chronicle reported Monday.

The firing comes days after reports arose of tensions between Porter and general manager Jeff Luhnow. Tom Lawless replaces Porter as interim manager and Houston adds&nbsp;Adam Everett to the coaching staff to replace Trembley.

Luhnow released a statement about the decision:


&ldquo;Earlier today, I informed Bo Porter that he would no longer be our manager and told Dave Trembley that he would not complete the season as our bench coach.

&ldquo;Bo&rsquo;s passion and energy are unparalleled, and his desire to win unquestioned. This decision was not made because of our current level of competitiveness in the Major Leagues. I recognize that our win-loss record is largely a product of an organizational strategy for which I am responsible. Rather, I made this decision because I believe we need a new direction in our clubhouse.

&ldquo;What we will seek going forward is a consistent and united message throughout the entire organization. It is essential that as an organization we create an atmosphere at the Major League level where our young players can come up and continue to develop and succeed. Ultimately, I am responsible for creating that culture, and I will do everything in my power to do so&mdash;even when it means making difficult moves like the one we made today.

&ldquo;Moving forward, I am optimistic about the direction of our team. Our young core continues to progress, and I believe wholeheartedly that our plan&mdash;while at times challenging&mdash;is working and will bring a consistent winner to Houston in the very near future.&rdquo;&nbsp;


Porter was 110-190 during parts of two seasons with the Astros.&nbsp;Lawless joins Houston after spending time as the interim manager for Triple-A Oklahoma City earlier this season.

Astros owner Jim Crane also commented on Porter&#39;s firing:&nbsp;&ldquo;This was not an easy decision to make. We wish Bo nothing but the best in the future. Jeff has my full support moving forward. Our goal to bring a championship to Houston remains.&rdquo;
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                