Did the 49ers re-signing of Alex Boone set a bad precedent? Did the 49ers re-signing of Alex Boone set a bad precedent? Dec 29, 2013; Phoenix, AZ, USA; San Francisco 49ers guard Alex Boone (75) against the Arizona Cardinals at University of Phoenix Stadium. Mandatory Credit: Mark J. Rebilas-USA TODAY SportsNFL    San Francisco 49ers&rsquo; guard Alex Boone finally ended his holdout over the weekend, signing a two-year deal worth about $6 million.  Peter King of The Monday Morning Quarterback believes the signing may have set a dangerous precedent. I think the 49ers set a dangerous precedent for their team in a few ways Sunday, bringing back guard Alex Boone from his summer-long camp holdout, as Adam Schefter reported. One, they chose to not collect his fines for going AWOL from camp despite having two years left on his contract. Two, they told him they wouldn&rsquo;t put the franchise tag on him when his contract expires after the 2015 season. Three, according to Pro Football Talk, the club raised his pay over the next two seasons from $3.7 million to $6 million total. With the first team offense looking offensive in Weeks 2 and 3 of the preseason, GM Trent Baalke obviously swallowed hard and did some objectionable things (for him) in bowing to Boone. But the protection of Colin Kaepernick was an issue, and Boone was badly missed. Boone rattled his sword and won. Will the next Niner unhappy with his contract (Vernon Davis?) be able to do the same? Davis, who has expressed his desire for a new contract very well could do the same thing. Although the 49ers believe they have upgraded at receiver, Davis still may be their most valuable pass-catcher and a player they certainly rely on. Stay tuned to FanSided as we keep you up to date with the latest news throughout the first weekend of College Football, which ends Monday night when the Louisville Cardinals host the Miami Hurricanes, and throughout the rest of the season.&nbsp;The pros will start their regular season on Thursday night when the world champion Seattle Seahawks host the Green Bay Packers and we&rsquo;ll have everything you need to know about the NFL as well.