New England Patriots trading Logan Mankins was a big gamble New England Patriots trading Logan Mankins was a big gamble Aug 28, 2014; Tampa, FL, USA; Tampa Bay Buccaneers guard Logan Mankins (70) watches from the sidelines during the first half against the Washington Redskins at Raymond James Stadium. Mandatory Credit: Kim Klement-USA TODAY SportsNFL    Last week, the New England Patriots made a surprising and interesting move move when they traded Pro Bowl guard Logan Mankins to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in exchange for tight end Tim Wright and a fourth round pick. Peter King of The Monday Morning Quarterback called the move an &ldquo;interesting gamble.&rdquo; Interesting gambit by Belichick. He&rsquo;s gambling the Patriots can make do on the offensive line and use the resources from the trade, offensive tight end Tim Wright and a fourth-round pick next year, to continue what the Patriots have been for 13 years&mdash;a near-playoff lock and consistent double-digit winner. To do that, Belichick has to be impervious to the grenades tossed when he gets rid of such top players. But with Belichick and the Patriots organization, it&rsquo;s about the continuum. It&rsquo;s not all about today. In this case, he obviously feels he needs Rob Gronkowski insurance. And even if Gronkowski is healthy, the Pats haven&rsquo;t replaced the offensive skills of Aaron Hernandez in their attack. The Patriots&rsquo; offense looks much better when they have two capable tight ends so the deal wasn&rsquo;t all about Wright &ndash; he is a nice piece. As a rookie last season,&nbsp;Wright made 54 receptions for 571 yards with five touchdowns for the&nbsp;Buccaneers in 2013 and is reportedly already impressing his new squad. Stay tuned to FanSided as we keep you up to date with the latest news throughout the first weekend of College Football, which ends Monday night when the Louisville Cardinals host the Miami Hurricanes, and throughout the rest of the season.&nbsp;The pros will start their regular season on Thursday night when the world champion Seattle Seahawks host the Green Bay Packers and we&rsquo;ll have everything you need to know about the NFL as well.