Joe Philbin on Gronkowski playing: 'We'll be ready for him' Joe Philbin on Gronkowski playing: 'We'll be ready for him' Jul 24, 2014; Foxborough, MA, USA; New England Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski (87) runs through drills during training camp at the team practice facility. Mandatory Credit: Stew Milne-USA TODAY SportsNFL    The Miami Dolphins kick off their season this Sunday with a tough task at home when they welcome the AFC East rivals New England Patriots into town.  The task of beating Tom Brady and the Patriots got a lot more difficult today when it was reported that Pro Bowl tight end Rob Gronkowski will in fact be playing for the Patriots this coming Sunday. If there was any doubts to the reports, Gronkowski&rsquo;s latest tweet essentially proves that he will definitely be on the field for the Patriots this Sunday: Hard work and dedication for the love of the game! It&rsquo;s that time again, it&rsquo;s go time! Super pumped! #PatsNation &mdash; Rob Gronkowski (@RobGronkowski) September 1, 2014 When the news broke that Gronkowski would be playing, Dolphins media quickly got a quote from head coach Joe Philbin regarding how Gronkowski&rsquo;s availability affects the game. Not surprisingly, Philbin noted that the Dolphins are prepared for Gronkowski and the Patriots this weekend. Joe Philbin on Gronk playing: &ldquo;We were fully prepared. He&rsquo;s on their 53 man roster so we were prepared. We&rsquo;ll be ready for him, for sure.&rdquo; &mdash; Armando Salguero (@ArmandoSalguero) September 1, 2014 Dolphins media also got a quote from defensive coordinator Kevin Coyle, who will now have to deal with the unsavory task of stopping Gronkowski. Kevin Coyle on Gronk playing: &ldquo;Any of the big-body TEs that body up becomes an issue.&rdquo; Coyle assumed Gronk would play. Not certain HOW MUCH. &mdash; Armando Salguero (@ArmandoSalguero) September 1, 2014 There is no question Brady and Gronkowski will test the Dolphins this weekend, but we will just have to wait and see how the team responds.