Harbaugh: Lloyd will be ready for Week 1 Harbaugh: Lloyd will be ready for Week 1  Editor's note: 49ers head coach Jim Harbaugh conducted a conference call following the final cuts on Saturday, Aug. 30. Below is a transcript of his comments. 
“Well, I don’t see where any type of comment by me would be productive.”“I am still learning that myself.”“No, still learning that myself.”“Yes.”“Well, we went with the eight number again, and [C] Marcus Martin was planned on being six weeks, that was what we’d been told by the doctors. So, we’ll assess as we go.”“He’s done a fine job. He’s been versatile. He’s played well in the games and felt like he earned a position.”“Not dramatically. It’s a concern, something that always has to be looked at.”“There are young players that are going to have to rise to the challenge. It’ll be a challenge for our whole football team – the veteran players, young players, to get our special teams where we’re used to them being.”“We all felt like [they] had earned it – all three quarterbacks. It’s typically what we’ve done. We’ve been a three-quarterback team. If you look at our roster, we’ve mainly been three quarterbacks. And then, also, you talked about the snapper earlier, another example. I thought somebody that really earned the job.”“That’s been very rare and seldom that he’s been at wide receiver in terms of maybe a look. But no, that’s not necessarily a consideration in terms of playing other positions.”“Will is still going through a concussion protocol from the third preseason game. Kenneth Acker’s been dealing with a foot problem. He was MRI’ed yesterday and the recommendation was that he stay off of it for an extended period of time.”“Jonathan, another example of someone who’s really earned the position. He’s been mainly playing tackle, but he has the ability to play guard and going forward that will be something that he’ll continue to learn and be good at. I feel very good about it. He’s done an excellent job of getting the job done.”“Yes. It’s all been very good. We’re very fortunate to have him and excited about it.”“Just felt like he’s earned the job. He earned it.”“Yes, to Brandon Lloyd. Antoine Bethea was doing the final protocol today and did that on the field. And we’ll see if there are symptoms tomorrow. If not, he’ll be cleared.”“We’ll see.”“Yes, we do expect him to be very good on special teams. Yes, the game on Thursday, he did a very fine job and we thought in the games leading up to that – the Baltimore game, Denver, San Diego, he was making his case, he was stating his argument and finally felt like he earned the job.”“Yes. Defensively, [LB] Patrick Wills and [DT] Justin Smith. Offense, [T] Joe Staley and [QB] Colin Kaepernick.”“Well, there’s only one football, so that’s not going to change. Nothing will be given. There’ll be no layups. Guys will be competing and it will be competition at the highest level. There’s no question when you look at that group, it looks extremely good. But the competition won’t be self-centered. Knowing our guys, it’ll be something that’ll be very good for our team.”