Riggs, Bryant give 'crucial' jolt to Notre Dame punt return Riggs, Bryant give 'crucial' jolt to Notre Dame punt return  SOUTH BEND, Ind. — Consider this: In 2012, Notre Dame players combined for 46 yards on 21 punt returns. Cody Riggs surpassed that mark after fielding two punts on Saturday against Rice.
Riggs returned punts for 24 and 25 yards, a total of 49 that represented a major step forward for the Irish. Greg Bryant fielded the rest of the game's punts, totaling 31 yards on three returns and giving the Irish 80 punt return yards for the game.
Combine that punt return success with Amir Carlisle's 49 yards on kick returns and Notre Dame's average starting field position was on its own 36, a solid improvement off prior years in which that average was in the 20s.

"(Our) starting position over the last couple years was absolutely miserable," coach Brian Kelly said. "… When you're at the 40, 45‑yard line, it makes it a whole lot easier to control the flow of the football game. Special teams is going to be key in that and that will help us win football games."
Starting drives closer to midfield provided an excellent foundation for an offense that fired on all cylinders against Rice. College football stats guru Bill Connelly's research shows that, in a given game, the team with the better average starting field position wins 72 percent of the time. Rice's average starting field position against Notre Dame was its own 25 — and it's important to note, too, that Kelly believes he and his coaching staff have finally found the right mix of players for the team's kick and punt coverage units.

But Riggs and Bryant were the stars on Saturday for an Irish team bereft of anything resembling a competent punt return over the last few years. They'll likely tag-team punt returns over the season, with Riggs the first option but Bryant stepping in if the fifth-year senior is gassed from the previous defensive possession (as was the case vs. Rice).
While Kelly joked Bryant still needs to learn what a fair catch is — he attempted to return one punt while surrounded by a few Rice players — both he and Riggs are guys with big-play ability who could become major assets for an Irish team that'll probably have to win a few high-scoring games this fall.
"We have got guys back there that are fearless, that will catch the football and stick their foot in the ground and get north and south, and that is absolutely crucial," Kelly said. "And we have guys that are committed to covering people up. So we have got the want to and the resolve to do and we have to continue to do it."