Koukash fuming at defeat Koukash fuming at defeat 				
					
						
							
							
								Koukash fuming at defeat
							
						
					
				
			
			Marwan Koukash is to implement a new regime at Salford where only the players that make the grade will have futures at the Red Devils.The Red Devils' season is effectively over in the wake of Sunday's woeful 42-6 defeat at the hands of Wakefield Wildcats, a result that left them unable to secure a top-eight finish.Koukash pulled no punches following their tame defeat at the Rapid Solicitors Stadium, lambasting the performance and saying the players need to show more pride in the shirt.The racehorse owner insists reputation will also count for nothing, commenting that if they are not up to the job then they can leave the AJ Bell Stadium.Koukash had targeted a spot in the end-of-season playoffs following an off-season of heavy investment and recruitment and the successful businessman is now even more determined than ever to deliver on his promise.He admits that giving Salford's players a break after their triumph over Catalan Dragons was a mistake and that losing to the Wildcats will bring about change for the better."I will not tolerate any more performances like Sunday's - players must show greater pride when wearing the Salford jersey," he told MEN Sport."I am now implementing and endorsing a new hard line regime within the club where only the strongest both mentally and physically will stay, play and survive.Up to the job"I am not bothered about reputations, I just want players who can be relied upon to meet these demands. Those who don't can go."I am the owner of the club but I am also a fan. The supporters who travelled to Wakefield deserve an apology from the players. It was not acceptable and nowhere near good enough. I felt let down and the fans certainly were."I was with the fans and saw some young boys who were crying such was their disappointment. This is what forced me to act and we will not be derailed by the failure to make the playoffs."We will be even stronger and even more determined. This is what will inspire me. I am still hurting from the defeat. I find it very hard to believe how the team could play so well against Catalan Dragons and then perform the way they did at Wakefield."It was shock and maybe the decision to give players time off in between the game was not the wisest thing to do. The majority lacked enthusiasm and looked jaded. I did not like what I saw and expected far greater in such an important game."Players who are not up for the challenge from here on in can leave. I have to look at what happened in between the Catalan game and the match at Wakefield. We did not compete and we gave in at times far too easily."I will not let the fans down and will continue to do the very best for the club but things have to change starting from right now. My tough new regime has started from today."