Serena Williams rolls to quarterfinals Serena Williams rolls to quarterfinals NEW YORK – Serena Williams avoided the upset bug that has plagued the U.S. Open by beating Kaia Kanepi of Estonia 6-3, 6-3 on Monday.No. 1 Williams needed 64 minutes to move past 50th-ranked Kanepi. She advanced to her 12th quarterfinal in New York and remained on course for a third consecutive U.S. Open title and sixth overall.With most of the big names out of the tournament – only Williams and No. 7 Eugenie Bouchard of Canada are alive among the top eight seeds – the 17-time major winner from the USA is a heavy favorite.But this is the first time Williams has advanced to a last eight at a major in 2014."I finally made a quarterfinal this year!" she shouted to the crowd during an on-court interview in Arthur Ashe Stadium.On a muggy afternoon, Williams relied on her vaunted serve, particularly through several tight games in the opening set.She won all 16 of her first serve points, smacked six aces and dropped just one point in her first four service games – and that was a double fault.Kanepi, who often stood toe-to-toe from the baseline with Williams, got out of an early jam by saving three break points in the second game, but Williams converted her fifth break point to take a 5-3 lead when the Estonian sent a forehand wide.The players traded three breaks to start the second set before Williams took control. She wobbled when serving for the match at 5-2, but immediately broke Kanepi back for a fourth time in the set to close out the match.She finished with eight aces, four double faults and 19 winners to go with 16 unforced errors."I just relaxed," Williams said of the tight first set. "I said, 'Serena, whatever happens, you're still in doubles.'"Williams, at 32 the oldest top-ranked player in the history of the WTA rankings, next meets Flavia Pennetta of Italy, a semifinalist a year ago.No. 11 seed Pennetta, also 32, beat Casey Dellacqua of Australia 7-5, 6-2 to reach her fifth U.S. Open quarterfinal earlier Monday.