Suspended game creates some cat-and-mouse for Bochy, Giants Suspended game creates some cat-and-mouse for Bochy, Giants   Brewers-Giants coverage starts today at 12:30 p.m. with Giants Pregame Live on Comcast SportsNet Bay Area
DENVER – The Giants and Rockies aren’t the only interested parties as they resume the May 22 suspended game on Monday at Coors Field. David Huff might be watching from afar, too.
Huff, now wearing Yankee pinstripes, is responsible for a runner on first base with two outs in the sixth inning. If the runner scores, Huff could take a loss several months after throwing his last pitch as a Giant.
It’ll be either Jean Machi or Jeremy Affeldt to replace Huff when the game resumes. Giants manager Bruce Bochy wouldn’t say which way he’ll go, since the Rockies will send up a pinch hitter for Troy Tulowitzki, who is on the disabled list. (The Rockies also will require a pinch runner for Michael Cuddyer, since he’s on the DL, too.)
Will he have both Affeldt and Machi warm up?
“Maybe,” Bochy said, with a smirk.
No matter which pitcher Bochy chooses, he’ll have to face at least one hitter. So the subterfuge can only be extended for so long.
Bochy also didn’t want to reveal his plans for replacing second baseman Brandon Hicks and left fielder Tyler Colvin, both of which are no longer on the active roster. But he did acknowledge there’s a good chance he’ll double-switch the pitcher’s spot with first baseman Michael Morse, who made the last out in the top of the sixth inning.

Reminder: September call-ups are eligible to participate in the suspended game. All players are eligible except for the ones who have already been used in that game and taken out. Oddly, Tim Hudson, who is locked into a no-decision after pitching three innings May 22, will start Monday’s regularly scheduled matinee. The Rockies and Giants will start the full game 30 minutes after the conclusion of the suspended game.
One call-up who could make his major league debut today is right-hander Hunter Strickland, who dominated as the closer at Double-A Richmond. Bochy said he wouldn’t hesitate to use Strickland in a setup role, especially since he plans to use most of his frontline guys in the suspended game.

Strickland is wearing No.60. Left-hander Mike Kickham (59), outfielder Juan Perez (2), catcher Guillermo Quiroz (14) and infielder Chris Dominguez (10) are here as well.
Bochy also confirmed there will be a second round of call-ups after Triple-A Fresno plays its final game of the season today. Players already on the 40-man roster, but not guaranteed a call-up, include Gary Brown, Jarrett Parker, Erik Cordier and Kendry Flores. The Giants could purchase a couple more contracts, too. They made space for Dominguez and Quiroz by transferring Ehire Adrianza and Hector Sanchez to the 60-day disabled list, and still could do the same with Matt Cain and Marco Scutaro.
Finally, Bochy said he wouldn’t change up the rotation to cherry pick his starters for the two remaining series against the Dodgers. The way it’s set up now, it’d be Madison Bumgarner, Tim Hudson and Yusmeiro Petit at AT&amp;T Park Sept. 12-14, then Jake Peavy, Bumgarner and Hudson at Dodger Stadium Sept. 22-24.
Bumgarner is lined up to pitch the regular-season finale vs. the Padres on Sept. 28.
 