Ramons Sessions rumors: Sessions' asking price is too high/ Ramons Sessions rumors: Sessions' asking price is too high/ Apr 12, 2014; Washington, DC, USA; Milwaukee Bucks point guard Ramon Sessions (13) dribbles as Washington Wizards point guard John Wall (2) defends during the second half at Verizon Center. The Wizards won 104-91. Mandatory Credit: Brad Mills-USA TODAY SportsNBA    Although point guard Ramon Sessions is a talented veteran who can clearly still contribute to a team, he remains unsigned. Sessions, who played for both the Charlotte Hornets (Bobcats) and Milwaukee Bucks last season, was reportedly drawing interested from the Houston Rockets but it looks like they won&rsquo;t be acquiring Sessions after dealing for Sacramento Kings&rsquo; guard Jason Terry.  Kevin Pelton of ESPN.com believes Session hasn&rsquo;t been signed because his asking price is simply too high. Mike (Cleveland) What is keeping Ramon Sessons from being picked up? Possibly his below average outside shooting? Would he fit in a return to Cleveland backing up Irving? Kevin Pelton  There may be teams interested, just not at his price, or teams like the Rockets (reportedly) who don&rsquo;t have any ability to get him outside of a sign-and-trade. I think the Cavaliers, since they have so many scorers and ballhandlers in the backcourt, probably prefer Dellavedova&rsquo;s ability to play off the ball to Sessions&rsquo; pick-and-roll game. Sessions averaged 12.3 points, 4.1 assists and 2.4 rebounds per game while shooting 42.9% from the field, 28.2% from beyond the arc and 80.7% from the free throw line for both the Bucks and Hornets last season. Sessions was selected with the 56th-overall selection in the second round of the 2007 NBA Draft. Sessions, who has also played for the Los Angeles Lakers, Minnesota Timberwolves and Cleveland Cavaliers, has put up 11.7 points, 4.7 assists and 3.0 rebounds while shooting 43.9% from the field, 31.1% from three and 80.0% from the charity stripe in his seven-year career. Be sure to check&nbsp;FanSided&rsquo;s official NBA page&nbsp;to keep up to date on the latest news and rumors from around the league all summer long.