Instant Replay: Giants edge Rockies, complete suspended game Instant Replay: Giants edge Rockies, complete suspended game  BOX SCORE
DENVER – The Giants won their seventh consecutive game Monday afternoon. But their winning streak remained at six.
Confused? Well, save that for the statisticians. Just know that a handshake line counts the same in the standings, whether it’s May 22 or Sept. 1. And the Giants are just two back of the Los Angeles Dodgers now.
Hunter Pence hit a tie-breaking RBI double in the eighth inning, adding to the home run he hit back in May when tornado warnings and heavy rain halted a 2-2 game with two outs and the Rockies batting in the sixth inning.

Pence’s double under sunnier skies put the Giants ahead and the bullpen did the rest in a 4-2 victory over the Colorado Rockies at Coors Field.
The results count on May 22, so officially, the Giants did not extend their six-game winning streak. They’ll try to do that in Monday’s regularly scheduled Labor Day matinee.
Oh, and the Giants finished May with a 20-9 record, by the way. What heady times they were.


Jeremy Affeldt inherited a two-out situation with pinch runner Charlie Culberson at first base in the sixth inning. The runner was the responsibility of David Huff, who is now wearing Yankee pinstripes and in theory could’ve taken a loss.
Affeldt made a pickoff throw and Culberson made it to second base, but pinch hitter Josh Rutledge struck out to end the inning.
Affeldt sat down the Rockies in order in the seventh, too.

Sergio Romo pitched around a two-out single in a scoreless eighth inning. Santiago Casilla gave up two hits in the ninth but got a double-play grounder and then another ground ball that shortstop Brandon Crawford smoothly fielded to end it. Casilla earned his second (or 14th, depending on your point of view) save of the season.
It was a particularly impressive save for Casilla, considering he was placed on the DL with a hamstring strain on May 22 after being carried off the field a day earlier.

Because the records will be counted on May 22, Andrew Susac’s single off Christian Friedrich leading off the eighth inning will go down officially as his first major league hit – even though it came two months before he debuted July 26.
That’s not the way it’ll be remembered, of course. The Rockies didn’t take the ball out of play and nobody on the Giants side called for it. The hit held more than sentimental value, anyway. Susac advanced on Gregor Blanco’s sacrifice and scored when Pence split the gap in right-center.
Pence entered with a 13-game hitting streak. The double did not extend it to 14 because … oh hell, you either understand it by now or you don’t.
Pence advanced to third on Buster Posey’s infield hit, then scored when Travis Ishikawa singled to right field. Posey was thrown out trying to go from first to third.

Angel Pagan covered ground to make a pair of running catches.

The Rockies announced 36,468 paid. Of course, they announced that on May 22. So take your best guess. At any rate, the folks who arrived five minutes late got to sing “Take Me Out to the Ballgame” during the seventh-inning stretch.

Tim Hudson (9-9, 2.90 ERA) starts for the second time, kind of, as the Giants and Rockies play Monday’s regularly scheduled Labor Day matinee. First pitch was expected 30 minutes after conclusion of the suspended game.  The Rockies are scheduled to start left-hander Franklin Morales (5-7, 5.14).
 