QPR complete Sandro deal QPR complete Sandro deal 				
					
							
					
						
							
							
								QPR complete Sandro deal
							
						
					
				
			
			QPR have completed the signing of Tottenham midfielder Sandro for an undisclosed fee.The Brazil international has signed a three-year deal at Loftus Road after a fee was agreed with their fellow Premier League club earlier in the day.Sandro, 25, made 60 starts in his spell at White Hart Lane but had not been involved in any of their games so far this season with new boss Mauricio Pochettino preferring other options in the Tottenham midfield.Boss Harry Redknapp, who originally signed Sandro for Spurs, said: "Sandro's a proper footballer and a top class professional - he's an absolutely fantastic signing for us. I couldn't be more pleased."He's been a massive target of mine all summer and I honestly didn't think we'd be able to pull it off - it's a real statement from the club, from the owners, to bring in a player of his undoubted ability."He brings energy, aggression, power and quality. They call him the Beast. He's not only a top quality footballer, but a fantastic boy as well. He'll lead by example for us. Tottenham fans loved him and I'm sure the QPR fans will too.""I like new challenges and this is one I'm really looking forward to," said Sandro."Working with Harry again, who I share a great relationship with, is very special to me. Football is in my heart and I'm very happy at this moment. I'm very pleased to be here and I'm looking forward to meeting my team-mates."I had a good relationship with the fans at Tottenham Hotspur and I will try my hardest to get the QPR fans to like me. I will give everything on the pitch and fight for every minute. I'm ready and raring to go."A fee was also agreed for Liverpool forward Fabio Borini, but terms were not forthcoming and the deal is just about dead in the water according to club owner Tony Fernandes.Speaking to Sky Sports News HQ outside Loftus Road, Fernandes said: "I'm not confident Borini will happen."I think players' expectations, agents' expectations...sometimes people have to be a bit realistic and we're not going to do anything silly. I'm not optimistic."A deal for Toronto's Jermain Defoe is also off the cards with MLS club Toronto not willing to let him leave with their season still ongoing..Niko Kranjcar, who played under Redknapp at Portsmouth and Spurs and was on loan at QPR last season, is also in west London to discuss a move and is prepared to take a huge pay cut to seal a move.And Redknapp insisted on Monday evening there was still a chance a deal for Lokomotiv Moscow's Lassana Diarra could be revived.That transfer appeared done at the weekend only to collapse early on deadline day, but Redknapp told Gary Cotterill: "I think that one is still going on so we’ll see."