Carrie Underwood, Preds C Mike Fisher expecting first child Carrie Underwood, Preds C Mike Fisher expecting first child Mar 19, 2014; Vancouver, British Columbia, CAN; Nashville Predators forward Mike Fisher (12) awaits start of the play against the Vancouver Canucks during the first period at Rogers Arena. The Vancouver Canucks won 2-0. Mandatory Credit: Anne-Marie Sorvin-USA TODAY SportsNHL    Carrie Underwood and Nashville Predators center Mike Fisher announced on Labor Day that they happy couple are expecting their first child.  Fisher and Underwood have been married since 2010 after a two-year courtship after meeting while Fisher played for the Ottawa Senators. As fate would have it, the Senators traded Fisher to the Predators in 2011 where Underwood lived and one of the power couples in the NFL could live happily ever after. Underwood posted a message on twitter to announce the new addition to the family. In honor of &ldquo;Labor&rdquo; Day&hellip;Ace &amp; Penny would like to make an announcement. Their parents couldn&rsquo;t be happier! pic.twitter.com/bROrzuHJ4J &mdash; Carrie Underwood (@carrieunderwood) September 1, 2014 No they aren&rsquo;t getting a new dog. Fisher posted on his twitter account that he has a pretty unique name that he is tossing around with the wife.   We haven&rsquo;t picked names yet but it&rsquo;s looking like Fly is gonna fly. #boyorgirl#flyfisher &mdash; Mike Fisher (@mikefisher1212) September 1, 2014  Fly Fisher, get it? Fisher is currently recovering from a ruptured Achilles he suffered in early July that is expected to sideline him for four-six months. The team signed veteran center Olli Jokinen in an effort to shore up the position> He had 20 goals and 29 assists last season. For his Nashville career he has 133 points in 212 games and 481 points in 887 career games. Let&rsquo;s start thinking of names for the happy couple, because anything to keep our minds occupied until the NHL offseason finally comes to an end and the season begins is a welcome distraction. 