Transfer Deadline Day: Serie A Round-Up Transfer Deadline Day: Serie A Round-Up 
Milan were the busiest team during a dramatic transfer deadline day in Serie A on Monday.Filippo Inzaghi's side got their main business done, with Marco van Ginkel's long-awaited loan move from Chelsea being completed.
The winger joins for the entire campaign, following the path trodden by Fernando Torres - who completed a two-year loan move on Sunday.
Yet that was just the start of an up-and-down period, with reports suggesting moves for Fiorentina's Manuel Pasqual and Parma's Jonathan Biabiany fell through.
The Biabiany move, set to include cash and Cristian Zaccardo going the other way, seemed certain when Milan welcomed the winger on Twitter.
However, it seems they jumped the gun with Zaccardo ultimately refusing to re-join his former club.
Undeterred, Milan snatched Atalanta midfielder Giacomo Bonaventura from under the noses of bitter rivals Inter.
Bonaventura moved to the San Siro for €7million, putting pen to paper on a five-year deal.
Most of that money was recouped, with midfielder Cristante heading to Benfica in a €6million transfer.
Other major departures saw Palermo striker Abel Hernandez join Premier League side Hull City amid Napoli pair Blerim Dzemaili and Goran Pandev signing for Galatasaray.
Despite the Bonaventura transfer being done late, Atalanta managed to snare a signing afterwards as Alejandro Gomez joined from Metalist Kharkiv.
One of the more active clubs were Sassuolo, who lost Jasmin Kurtic on loan to Fiorentina but signed Andrea Consigli for an undisclosed fee, plus Saphir Taider on loan.
The recruitment of the latter was particularly incredible, with Taider sent back from a spell at Premier League club Southampton having "failed to live up to the high levels of commitment expected".
That did not deter Sassuolo, who swooped to sign the 22-year-old for the duration of the campaign.
Another man moving from England to Italy was Manchester City defender Micah Richards, who is now with for the remainder of 2014-15.
Torino got three deals done when signing right-back Bruno Peres for an undisclosed fee, recruiting goalkeeper Luca Castellazzi on a free transfer from Inter and snaffling Parma striker Amauri.
They also lost two players, Davide Brivio and Vlada Avramov heading on loan to Verona and Atalanta respectively
Brivio was not Verona's only recruit, former Barcelona man Javier Saviola coming in to bolster their forward line.
An all-Serie A loan saw young defender Alessio Romagnoli join Sampdoria from Roma – who recruited Newcastle United’s Mapou Yanga-Mbiwa on similar terms.
Sampdoria also managed to secure the services of young Montenegro starlet Luka Djordjevic from Zenit and Parma full-back Djamel Mesbah, while letting Jose Campana join Porto on loan.
Cagliari snaffled one player, Joao Pedro coming in from Estoril with Matias Cabrera heading in the opposite direction.
Chievo signed midfielder Marco Gargiulo from Brescia in an agreement that sees them immediately loan the midfielder back to the Serie B club.
The day ended with a deal not getting done in time, Parma missing out on Lazio midfielder Alvaro Gonzalez.