Astros Take Another Detour With Porter Firing Astros Take Another Detour With Porter Firing Astros Take Another Detour With Porter Firing

						
		
	
	This morning on Sports Radio 610, host Patrick Creighton asked, “Aren’t the Astros due for a P.R. disaster today? It has been two weeks since the last one.&#8221; Appel, Aiken, Ground Control to name a few. Two hours later, on cue, the Astros announced Manager Bo Porter had been relieved of his duties in a press release.
As with any Astros story, it is hard to know even where to begin. Let’s start with the volume of men who have occupied the manager’s office in the last seven years.
Phil Garner, Cecil Cooper, Dave Clark, Brad Mills, Tony DeFrancesco, Bo Porter and Tom Lawless. That’s seven managers in those seven years. I have lived it and I am not sure I could have recited the list in order without a few minutes to think. Oh, and unless Lawless impresses in September, it will be eight managers in eight seasons. 
Owner Jim Crane didn’t seem to like the mood in the clubhouse when Mills was fired. Maybe he thought Mills was far too passive and in his eyes, accepted the losing. Enter Bo Porter. He is young, fiery and eternally positive. Maybe he was too fiery and didn’t accept the losing part of the process. 
React, overreact and repeat. That seems to be the way college programs and professional teams hire coaches and managers. My head is still spinning. How about yours?
Fans love to second guess coaches and managers. The Astros provide a unique dynamic of a dwindling fan base and a rising chorus of second guessers. Regardless of what the detractors may have thought about Porter, he was in high demand before accepting the Astros job. He interviewed with the Pirates and finished second to Clint Hurdle, a good choice that has worked out for that franchise. The Marlins were interested on multiple occasions. Had Porter waited one more year in Washington, it is likely he would have been the choice to replace Davey Johnson and could be currently skippering a playoff team instead of Matt Williams. The Astros chose him, but he also chose the organization and the city. He saw a tremendous chance to make an impact in an organization needing one and in the city he has called home for more than twenty years with an ambitious foundation helping out underprivileged kids. 
Stories surfaced in recent days about possible disagreements between Porter and General Manager Jeff Luhnow. Apparently there were enough issues for Luhnow to relieve Porter of his job before he was able to complete his second season, citing the need for a new direction in the clubhouse.
Porter could have easily finished out September and the organization could have failed to renew his contract. Why fire him now? Maybe there was some concern he would keep winning. Stop laughing for a second and think about this….the club had gone 9-7 in the last 16 games and were coming off a winning month (15-14) despite George Springer being on the disabled list and the trade of Jarred Cosart. Robbie Grossman is the leadoff hitter and Dexter Fowler is the clean-up batter for crying out loud. It wouldn’t have been a popular move to fire a manager who put together two winning months in a row and three for the year, especially with a lineup lacking in enough big league players.
For the remaining fans, the dangerous tendency of the organization is how they seem to double down like a high stakes game of poker. You don’t like hiring personnel from non- traditional baseball routes, well let’s make them executives.  You think the defensive shifts are too radical? Watch this, let’s do even more with dramatic shifting on several teams. You think the team is run by computers and decision scientists? Well here is some national publicity for their internal system called, “Ground Control.” That seemed ground breaking right up until the story on how the system had been hacked and internal memos were released on the internet. You think the team is trading off players and not trying to win games to collect draft picks? Let’s trade a power armed pitcher for more draft picks and fail to sign the #1 pick to collect even more in next year’s draft. Doubling down in a gambling sense means there is the potential for a huge pay day if you have the stomach for it. It would seem more likely to go broke trying. 
The national reaction to Porter’s firing, is consistent with most Astros matters, polarizing. Keith Law tweeted “Hardly surprising. Overmatched as a manager on field &amp; in clubhouse.” 
National writer Jon Heyman tweeted, “Astros year has been a disaster. Except for prediction to win 2017 world series by SI. That was the highlight.”
Luhnow answered one question after another Monday at a quickly scheduled press conference at Minute Maid Park. At one point he said he doesn’t make out lineups or tell managers when to hit and run. The question I was waiting for, was where would he rank the manager on a list of most important people in the baseball side of the business. I am guessing it would be well down the list behind decision scientists and brainiacs. The manager is probably expected to execute a game plan, not devise one.
It will be most interesting to see who emerges as candidates for the opening. There are only 30 of these jobs, so even those that see one red flag after another with the organization might still be willing to take the job if offered. Long time baseball guys might not be the fit. A first time manager didn’t work out either.  
I had a chance to visit with Porter in his office after Sunday’s game. Even after an exhausting stretch, he was excited about the possibility of playing spoiler against some good teams in September. More immediately, he was looking forward to enjoying a day off at home Monday. Now he will have more of those then he would like. The next manager won’t have many relaxing days ahead. There is still a steep hill to climb from an organizational standpoint. But the new skipper will have one benefit. His feet won’t be closest to the fire. Instead the general manager’s toes will be warm. Jeff Luhnow, you are on the clock.
Early in Crane’s tenure he presented his three leaders to move the franchise forward. Two of the three are gone. President of Business Operations George Postolos was a train wreck. His tenure was as short as it was volcanic. He was soon replaced by the well respected Reid Ryan. If it came down to Luhnow or Porter, Crane stuck with his General Manager, for now. He doubled down again on Luhnow. 
Crane might just have the stomach for high powered business deals. However, he doesn’t strike me as someone overflowing with patience. The clock is ticking.
“LATEST SPORTS STORIES:
Astros Take Another Detour With Porter FiringReport: Matt Schaub Replaced As Oakland Raiders Starting QuarterbackSt. Louis Rams Finalize Practice Squad, Michael Sam Not A MemberRams Claim Case Keenum Off WaiversBo Porter Fired As Astros Manager”


		
						
			
	
				
		Report: Matt Schaub Replaced As Oakland Raiders Starting Quarterback	