Table's set for Serena Williams' run at U.S. Open Table's set for Serena Williams' run at U.S. Open NEW YORK -- Serena Williams departed Wimbledon in July under bizarre circumstances due to what officials called a viral illness.So far at the U.S. Open, the top-ranked player has avoided the upset bug that has wreaked havoc on the women's field.On a muggy Monday, Williams beat 50th-ranked Kaia Kanepi of Estonia 6-3, 6-3 in 64 minutes to advance to her 12th quarterfinal in New York. She remained on course for a third consecutive U.S. Open title and sixth overall, which would tie her with Chris Evert for most in the Open era.With most of the big names toppling out of the tournament — only two of the top 10 seeds, Williams and No. 10 Caroline Wozniacki, are alive — the 17-time major winner from the USA is a heavy favorite.But this is the first time she has advanced to a last eight at a major in what has been a disappointing 2014."I finally made a quarterfinal this year!" she shouted to the crowd in Arthur Ashe Stadium during an on-court interview shortly after dispatching Kanepi.That being said, the table is set.Williams enters the crucial final stages of the tournament as the only woman with a major title on her resume.Her quarterfinal opponent, No. 11 Flavia Pennetta of Italy, is the highest remaining seed in her half and has never beaten Williams in five meetings, including a 6-2, 6-2 thumping last month in Cincinnati.Wozniacki is 1-8 versus Williams though she has pushed her the distance in two close matches this summer.Williams, who turns 33 this month, isn't taking any chances.She said she hadn't played well since winning her opening tournament at Brisbane in January, a result of nagging injuries and other unspecified trials.Her mindset is to treat the year's final major as gravy on her guaranteed hall-of-fame career."Now I'm more relaxed," she said. "I feel like I don't have to win any more. I've had a wonderful career."Williams being Williams, however, means she's applying plenty of internal pressure, despite her No. 1 ranking and WTA-tour leading five titles in 2014.To salvage her season, she needs to exit with at least one Grand Slam title. Even if she doesn't, a topsy-turvy year is guaranteed a fourth different Slam winner following Li Na's victory in Australia, Maria Sharapova's French Open title and Petra Kvitova's Wimbledon win.Williams' coach, Patrick Mouratoglou, said he was mostly pleased with her play. "What is satisfying is that she is in the quarters, she didn't lose a set, and she's focused," he said.Mostly, he said he was happy with the "humility" she has carried with her since losing in the third round at Wimbledon — to fight, win ugly if necessary and take every opponent seriously.Though she has looked ruthlessly efficient, another level or two wouldn't hurt, he added."If she wants to win here, she will have to play better," Mouratoglou said.PHOTOS: Day 8 at the U.S. Open