Ruben Amaro Jr. says significant changes are coming Ruben Amaro Jr. says significant changes are coming Howard Smith-USA TODAY SportsMLB Trade Rumors    It is finally time for the Philadelphia Phillies to move on from their glory days.  Like your high school classmate who goes back to campus for homecoming in his letter jacket for years after he graduates, it took a while for the Phillies to admit that it&rsquo;s time to move on. It sounds like they finally understand, even if the process of moving on for them might include absorbing big chunks of dead salary in trades. Looking ahead to this off-season, Phillies&rsquo; general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. says that he expects to make big changes to the roster. From Todd Zolecki of MLB.com: &ldquo;Not that it&rsquo;s a huge change, but we&rsquo;re going to have to start churning the roster in a way that it&rsquo;s going to have to be improved,&rdquo; Amaro said in the press box at Turner Field. Does he believe those changes could be significant? &ldquo;I do,&rdquo; he said. &ldquo;I think we need it. I think we need it because what we have on our roster right now is not working. How much we&rsquo;ll do will depend on what makes sense for us. We&rsquo;re still kind of assessing what we have. But I think it would behoove us to make some change because we need to be better.&rdquo; Amaro&rsquo;s job status was held in doubt for a long while, something that may or may not have hindered the initiation of the rebuilding process in Philadelphia. Now that it appears to be known that he will be the man driving the changes, Amaro will finally openly admit that those changes are coming. Among those potentially on the move will be closer Jonathan Papelbon, outfielder Dominic Brown, and first baseman Ryan Howard. Less likely but still possible would be deals involving pitchers Cole Hamels and Cliff Lee. The Phillies are currently 63-74 on the season, in last place in the National League East. Be sure to&nbsp;stay tuned to FanSided&nbsp;for all of the latest MLB news, rumors, transactions, and analysis as the 2014 season heads towards the&nbsp;playoffs and then the hot stove this winter.