Melvin: Dunn's debut with A's was 'storybook' Melvin: Dunn's debut with A's was 'storybook' OAKLAND – Adam Dunn was stoked. Invigorated. Revitalized.The same could be said for the Oakland Athletics offense, which had looked lethargic for a month and downright moribund for the last few games.Now the question is whether the renewed energy will last long enough for the A's to make a run at the AL West title after their worst offensive stretch in 36 years.Dunn, acquired in a Sunday trade with the Chicago White Sox, certainly made a grand entrance into his new home Monday, belting a two-run homer in his first at-bat with the A's to propel them to a 6-1 win over the Seattle Mariners that halted a four-game skid.Oakland also welcomed the return of shortstop Jed Lowrie, who missed 16 games with a fractured right index finger, and he and Dunn combined for four of the A's 11 hits against the club with the majors' best ERA."The lineup just seems like it was more impactful with those two guys,'' said manager Bob Melvin, who called Dunn's debut "storybook.''Still pursuing his first playoff appearance in a 14-year career he has said will likely end this season, Dunn was so excited to help out a contender, he couldn't even remember what kind of pitch from Seattle starter Chris Young he launched just over the fence in right to spark a five-run first inning."It happened so fast,'' Dunn said. "That's the most excited, anxious, probably call it a little nervous, that I've been in a long time. It was real fun. It's a good feeling. You lose that a little sometimes.''Dunn's White Sox were playing out the string when they asked the designated hitter about waiving his no-trade clause to head to Oakland, which ruled the AL West for 3 ½ months before the Los Angeles Angels knocked them off in mid-August. The Angels then stretched their lead to five games with a four-game sweep in Anaheim last week.With 1,977 games in the majors, Dunn is the longest-tenured active player never to reach the postseason, so he jumped at the chance to join a contender and was thrilled to contribute right away."Obviously you want to do well for your new team, but the ultimate goal is the pennant race,'' Dunn said. "You do what you have to do this last month. I can speak pretty passionately about it – these chances don't come along very often, especially for some of us, so we're going to take full advantage of it.''The A's had lost any semblance of an offense in getting swept by the Angels, who outscored Oakland 18-4 from Thursday to Sunday. That was the smallest output Oakland had produced in a four-game set since 1978, and at one point the team went 29 innings in a row without touching home plate.Melvin called the listless performance, which included several defensive misplays, "embarrassing, pathetic,'' a rare display of frustration by the relentlessly even-keeled manager.The Anaheim disaster marked the lowlight of a 12-17 August that saw the A's average just 3.6 runs a game – 1.4 below their season standard through July – and doomed them to their first losing month since May 2012.Power-hitting outfielder Brandon Moss batted .169 with no home runs and 38 strikeouts in August, while fellow All-Star Derek Norris hit .202 with 26 strikeouts. In addition, Lowrie, John Jaso and Craig Gentry missed time with injuries.The team-wide slump set in virtually right after general manager Billy Beane pulled off his riskiest move of the season, sending explosive left fielder Yoenis Cespedes to the Boston Red Sox for All-Star left-hander Jon Lester at the July 31 nonwaiver trade deadline.Oakland certainly has missed Cespedes' ability to change a game with a swing or even a throw, although right fielder Josh Reddick said the players have not joined in the chorus of voices bemoaning the trade."Nobody even mentions that, even though we all know what Cespy meant for this team,'' said Reddick, who is batting .291 since the All-Star break. "We're not going to sit here and use an excuse like that for our one-through-nine struggles. We still have a good lineup, with our without him.''It appears to be better, or at least more capable of striking quickly, with the hulking Dunn in the middle. While Dunn has long been one of the most strikeout-prone hitters in the game, he's also tied with David Ortiz for 35th place on the all-time home run list.The 461st homer of Dunn's career pumped a capacity crowd of 36,067 – Oakland's 15th sellout of the season – and made him an instant favorite among his new fans and teammates."For the new guy to come in and make an impact like he did was huge,'' Reddick said. "It picked us up right away, especially after a tough weekend out there. It's something huge for us to have a big inning like that.''The word "huge'' typically accompanies the 6-6, 285-pound Dunn, who had a hard time fitting under the A's celebratory "tunnel'' after the home run.Less obvious but just as important was having Lowrie back in action, stretching the lineup and providing steady fielding at shortstop. Lowrie's finger is not fully healed but he called it "manageable,'' and at this stage of the season that will do."We're at a point where it's all hands on deck,'' Lowrie said. "If I can manage it when it's at this point and hope it can continue to get better as September and hopefully October come on, it's worth it.''PHOTOS: MLB disabled list