Bulls' Pau Gasol continues early dominance with Spain Bulls' Pau Gasol continues early dominance with Spain  Team USA's biggest obstacle in the 2014 FIBA World Cup will be Spain, a group that earned silver medals at both the 2008 and 2012 Olympic Games, has won a pair of EuroBasket championships (2009, 2011) and touts the most talented roster outside of the red, white and blue.
And leading the charge, at least early in this World Cup, has been Bulls forward Pau Gasol.
In three games, Gasol has averaged 23.7 points, 6.7 rebounds and 1.7 assists in leading the Spaniards to a perfect record in pool play. He began the tournament with a major splash, going off for 33 points and a +/- rating of 26 in a win over Iran. He needed just 19 minutes in the team's 91-54 blowout victory over Egypt and on Monday had 26 points, nine rebounds and three blocks — including three 3-pointers — in Spain's impressive 19-point victory over Brazil, which touts NBA players Nene, Tiago Splitter and Anderson Varejao in the frontcourt.

Gasol's Spain team, ranked No. 2 in the FIBA world ranks behind the USA, features NBA players Ricky Rubio, Marc Gasol, Serge Ibaka and Jose Calderon, and with Gasol playing at such a high (and healthy) level there's a good chance they meet up with Team USA in the championship game.
Should that happen, Gasol would play a key role in the Spaniards knocking off the favorites. But he's got the experience; in the 2012 London Olympics, Gasol went for 24 points, eight rebounds and seven assists in Spain's valiant 107-100 loss to LeBron James, Kevin Durant and the rest of Team USA. Four years earlier, in Beijing, Gasol had 21 points as Spain once again lost to the Redeem Team, 118-107.
Gasol is now 34 and not the same player he was in either of those Olympics, but being part of such an experienced Spain group that has played with each other for nearly a decade and having a perfect skill set for international play, it's something to watch as the tournament progresses.
Tom Thibodeau and Derrick Rose may see the newest member of the Bulls making some real noise.
In other Bulls-related news, second-round pick Cameron Bairstow has averaged 6.5 points and 2.0 rebounds for Australia, the No. 9 team in the FIBA world ranks. The Australians are 1-1 in pool play.