Redknapp - United's Galacticos Redknapp - United's Galacticos 			
					View Image
					&#160;&gt;				
					
					
						
							
							
								Redknapp - United's Galacticos
							
						
					
				
			
			Jamie Redknapp says Manchester United could emerge as the new “Galacticos” after a summer of heavy spending.Radamel Falcao was set to join the club on Monday night in the latest deal of a huge summer outlay that has seen the likes of Angel di Maria, Daley Blind, Ander Herrera, Marcos Rojo and Luke Shaw move to Old Trafford.The signings will compete with established stars such as Wayne Rooney and Robin van Persie for places in the side and Sky Sports pundit Redknapp says Louis van Gaal will have some tough decisions to make when he names his team for the game with QPR after the international break.He told Sky Sports News HQ: “This strikes me as not a panic, but the one that will get them into the top four. I don’t think my dad was too pleased this morning because their next game is QPR at home live on Sky!“Di Maria, Falcao, Rooney, Van Persie... it’s almost becoming a bit of a Galacticos now.“The problem is going to be defensively. They are a little bit susceptible at the back; they have lost Nemanja Vidic and Rio Ferdinand and not replaced them and that is a bit of a problem.“One thing’s for sure. Falcao hasn’t come to sit on the bench. When you’re that big a name, you want to come and play so the manager will have to make some big decisions.“If they keep the 3-5-2 system it makes it a little bit easier, but if he reverts to a 4-3-3 it becomes a little more difficult because one has to start up front.“It is an embarrassment of riches and that’s why Van Gaal is paid vast amounts of money. It’s getting to the stage where we won’t find out how much of a genius he is because it’s not that difficult with those sorts of players at his disposal.”Van Gaal has been aiming to build a team that can get back into the Premier League's top four after a disappointing seventh-placed finish under David Moyes last term.Redknapp said a defender and a midfielder would have been a priority, but that the chance to bring in Falcao was too good to turn down as he’s arguably better than any of their current strikers.“What theyll have acquired is one of the best centre-forwards in the world; a very special footballer as long as his knee’s right.“If he is fit and ready then he’s as good as I’ve ever seen and they’ve got someone very special.“How will Robin van Persie and Wayne Rooney feel today? My guess is they wouldn’t be too happy because if he’s fit and ready he’s as good as both of them, if not better.“I’m sure most United fans would have expected a defender to come through the door and maybe a defensive midfield player, but when a player like this becomes available and you get an opportunity to sign him for four years you can’t turn him down. Robin van Persie can’t play forever. He has just turned 31 and has had injury problems in the past.“We all talk about how good Diego Costa is, but Falcao used to keep Costa out of the side when he was at Atletico. That tells you everything about how good he is.”