J.J. Watt, Texans agree to contract extension J.J. Watt, Texans agree to contract extension Aug 23, 2014; Denver, CO, USA; Houston Texans defensive end J.J. Watt (99) reacts on the sidelines in the third quarter of a preseason game against the Denver Broncos at Sports Authority Field at Mile High. The Texans defeated the Broncos 18-17. Mandatory Credit: Ron Chenoy-USA TODAY SportsNFL    Just days before the 2014 NFL season is about to get underway, the Houston Texans have locked up one of the best defensive players in the NFL, as they have agreed to terms with defensive end J.J. Watt on a long-term deal, this according to John McClain of the Houston Chronicle.  Watt was selected with the 11th overall pick in the 2011 draft by the Texans, and has become one of the most dominant defensive forces in the entire league since then. In his three seasons, Watt has totaled 217 tackles with 35.5 sacks, and he&rsquo;s only going to continue to get better. With two years left on his current deal, there were some that thought a deal might not get done anytime soon, however just the other day when asked if something could get done before the season starts, which it did, Watt sort of hinted that something was rather close. &ldquo;I would like it very much if it did,&rdquo; Watt said with a smile. At this time, the actual numbers of the new deal aren&rsquo;t known, but they should be released by the time the morning hits. But ESPN&rsquo;s Chris Mortensen is reporting that the deal will make Watt the highest paid defensive player in the league. JJ Watt&rsquo;s new extension in range of jersey number plus zeroes &ndash; $99 million over 6 years, including $51 million guaranteed, per sources &mdash; Chris Mortensen (@mortreport) September 2, 2014  This is a huge coup for the Texans as they begin to try and bounce back from their horrible 2013 showing in which they went 2-14. But the pieces are in place for this defense, with the returning Brian Cushing and top overall pick Jadeveon Clowney, to get back to being one of the most feared in the NFL. A good start to that is making sure that you&rsquo;re keeping one of the most feared players in the NFL around for the next few years to come.