It's Easy for Eddery It's Easy for Eddery 				
					
							
					
						
							
							
								It's Easy for Eddery
							
						
					
				
			
			A review of the action from Leicester where outsider of four Feeling Easy bounced back to form for Robert Eddery.Feeling Easy caused an upset when storming from last to first to snatch victory in the Shepshed Fillies' Nursery Handicap at Leicester.The 12-1 outsider of four, trained by Robert Eddery, came with a rattling late run under Jimmy Quinn to grab Some Show close home and win by a neck with White Vin Jan third.War Alert, the 10-11 favourite, had every chance but faded in the last furlong to finish last.Feeling Easy was bouncing back to form to win her third race after being well beaten in a hot nursery at Newmarket on her latest start."She did it well and I'm very pleased with her," said Eddery."She's a very tough little filly. Unfortunately at Newmarket the last day the ground was very firm. She came back jarred and it's taken a bit of time to get her right."I'll have to see what the handicapper does. I imagine I'll have to run her in a decent race now."Scoppio Del Carro (5-2 favourite) overcame plenty of trouble in running to claim the Widmerpool Handicap and open his account at the eighth try.David Probert had the door slammed shut several times until finally getting out in the final furlong. He stormed past Ajig in the closing stages to win by a length and a quarter."It was a bit frustrating. He can be a bit keen in his races, but he settled well early on and once he got into top gear he was away," Probert said."I wanted to get him rolling earlier than that but as it was I had to wait for a run and ended up switching round them. He's then put it to bed pretty quickly. He's progressing."Fingal's Cave ended a run of five second places when getting off the mark in the Gilmorton Maiden Auction Stakes (Div 1).The evens favourite, trained by Mick Channon, led over a final furlong out under Willie Twiston-Davies to score by half-a-length from Thorkhill Star.Twiston-Davies said: "He'll be a lot better when he learns to do things our way. When he learns to settle he'll be a better horse."In division two, Cape Xenia (4-5 favourite) just held Multistar by a nose for trainer Henry Candy and jockey Fergus Sweeney."The race didn't go according to plan. It got very messy and when a gap did open, Fergus thought he'd better kick on and make use of it rather than wait and wait and start all over again. Then she was very idle in front."I think there's a lot of improvement in her. She wants to grow up a bit but I think she will be nice."The David Simcock-trained Fractal (11-4) led a furlong out to take the Ian Pillinger 'Av It' Memorial Handicap by two lengths in the hands of Martin Lane."He's benefited from being gelded and has grown up plenty. He's a horse to look forward to and whatever he achieves this year willl be a bit of a bonus," said Simcock.Apprentice Shane Gray's 5lb claim was crucial as he steered the Joe Tuite-trained Zipedeedodah (7-1) home by a short head from Fujiano in the Cropston Nursery Handicap.Jacob Butterfield was another winning apprentice as he struck on the Ollie Pears-trained Al Khan (6-1) in the Kinoulton Handicap for his 50th career success.Lambourn trainer Ben de Haan made it three winners from just six runners at the East Midlands track in the last five years when saddling Generalyse (6-1) to take the Six Hills Handicap.Ryan Tate, claiming 3lb, guided the top weight to victory by three-quarters of a length from Smokethatthunders.