Kirk hoping for wildcard pick Kirk hoping for wildcard pick 				
					
						
							
							
								Kirk hoping for wildcard pick
							
						
					
				
			
			Chris Kirk is hoping his victory at the Deutsche Bank Championship may have earned him a place in the US Ryder Cup team.The American, who was joint third with Rory McIlroy and Jason Day on 10 under going into the final day, carded five birdies in a final-round 66 to beat Australia's Geoff Ogilvy and fellow Americans Russell Henley and Billy Horschel by two shots.The 29-year-old posted the biggest win of his career and moved into the top spot in the FedEx Cup playoff standings."I really felt good with the putter today. My biggest win ever," said Kirk, who reached 15-under 269 at TPC Boston. "I am very happy with my win today."I may look calmer than some other guys in that situation, but I am still freaking out on the inside."Kirk is not sure if it was enough to convince US captain Tom Watson to add him to the Ryder Cup team.Consideration"I certainly don't feel entitled, or feel like I'm a shoe-in to get a pick," Kirk said. "I've obviously really put myself into consideration, and it's something that I would love to do."The nine guys that made it are automatic. Those are the guys on the team. The other three? If you get in, it's a bonus."Horschel needed a birdie to tie or an eagle to win heading to the par-five last hole. He put his drive in the middle of the fairway, giving him a shot to make the green in two.But he fluffed his second shot, which landed well short and in a hazard. Horschel (69) settled for a bogey and fell into a three-way tie for second.He was joined at 13-under 271 by Geoff Ogilvy (65) and third-round leader Russell Henley (70)."I was just trying to make sure I hit a good golf shot and I hit it a little too long," Horschel said. "There are a lot of positives to take away from this week."It is the first time I've been in contention all year. I handled myself really well, stayed calm and stayed patient. I made one bad swing and it happened to come on the last hole."Watch confirmation of Paul McGinley's Ryder Cup team from 12:30pm on Tuesday on Sky Sports News HQ and coverage of the event proper starts on September 26 on channel 405, our dedicated Sky Sports Ryder Cup channel.