Golf: Lahiri, Kapur, Chowrasia keen do well in European Masters Golf: Lahiri, Kapur, Chowrasia keen do well in European Masters 
										
		Crans Montana, Switzerland: Anirban Lahiri, Shiv Kapur and SSP Chowrasia will have specific goals in mind when they tee off at the Omega European Masters, the only event on European soil to be sanctioned by Asian and European Tours, to be held from September 4 to 7 here.
While Lahiri, high on confidence having played two Majors and then being honoured with Arjuna Award at home, will seek to augment his lead at the top of the Asian Tour's Order of Merit, Kapur will be looking to make an upward movement to qualify for the European Tour's Grand Finale in Dubai and Chowrasia will be keen to continue his decent run on the Tour and try to win back his European Tour card.

Also in the fray will be Gaganjeet Bhullar, who has had an up-and-down season and Jeev Milkha Singh, who has been struggling this season.
The Indians will be present in good numbers, as will be the top Europeans including the charismatic Spaniard Miguel Angel Jimenez, the European Tour's oldest winner and holder of 21 titles, which includes a win in Switzerland in 2010.
The European Tour challenge also includes Wales' Jamie Donaldson, Italian Matteo Manassero and French star Victor Dubuisson.
Lahiri, who leads the money rankings following one victory and three top-10s on the region's premier Tour, is expected to put up a performance befitting of his status as one of Asia's rising stars.
"Winning the Asian Tour Order of Merit has always been one of my goals for this season. I'm glad I've put myself in a good position to achieve that with several good results so
far," said Lahiri. 
With the pressure of winning his first title abroad finally off his shoulders after his dramatic triumph in Indonesia in April, the four-time Asian Tour winner is hopeful of following in the footsteps of compatriot Jeev Milkha Singh in winning on European soil.
"It was great to have my first win outside India when I won in Indonesia. The pressure is off and I just have to keep focusing on playing good golf and keep getting better as the
year progresses," said the 27-year-old Indian.
Kapur, who has twice won on the European Challenge Tour, is seeking to earn a berth into the Dubai World Championships for the first time. He is currently 67th in the Race to Dubai Standings and is coming off a fine 14th place at the Italian Open.
Chowrasia, two-time winner of joint-sanctioned events between Asia and Europe, is seeking to make a comeback to European Tour after missing out on the card last year. This year he has got limited starts and is hoping to do well on joint-sanctioned events to get through once more.
Jeev and Arjun Atwal are the only other Indians to have won European Tour events
Bangladeshi Siddikur Rahman will also be in action as he tees up alongside Filipino ace Angelo Que, Sweden's Rikard Karlberg and Korea's Baek Seuk-hyun here. 
PTI