Jerry Jones o.k. with Brandon Weeden and not Kyle Orton Jerry Jones o.k. with Brandon Weeden and not Kyle Orton Aug 28, 2014; Arlington, TX, USA; Dallas Cowboys quarterback Brandon Weeden (3) looks at a Microsoft Surface tablet on the bench against the Denver Broncos at AT&amp;T Stadium. Denver beat Dallas 27-3. Mandatory Credit: Tim Heitman-USA TODAY SportsNFL   Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse  Kyle Orton played the veteran card brilliantly. He wanted out of Dallas and was ready to retire to make that happen. Or so he wanted the Dallas Cowboys to believe. After staying away from the Cowboys he eventually got his release and after training camps broke around the NFL he opted to come back to play and signed with the Buffalo Bills. Jerry Jones hasn&rsquo;t said much since the saga began and ended. Until now.  Jones spoke with KRLD-FM&nbsp;and was asked if he had any regrets about releasing the veteran quarterback who was taking about $5million of Jone&rsquo;s money with him. &ldquo;It didn&rsquo;t really surprise me because right at the end, right when we started to camp, Kyle basically came to Dallas and expressed an interest in playing,&rdquo; That&rsquo;s an interesting revelation from the team&rsquo;s owner and general manager considering the amount of money that Orton would receive if the team simply let him go. Jones has never seemed to be the type of guy who simply allows players to dictate their future to him especially when it&rsquo;s his money they are playing with. Remember this is an owner who will not enshrine Jimmy Johnson into the teams Hall of Fame because he believes it would take the credit for those Super Bowl wins out of his name. Jones continues the interview to say that by the time Orton told them he wanted to continue playing that the Cowboys had already decided to go in a different direction. That direction is former Cleveland Brown quarterback Brandon Weeden. We liked everything Weeden was doing, so it gave us a good chance to take a player that&rsquo;s got a chance to help us many years into the future. We thought getting Weeden some experience, you could have him where Kyle Orton is pretty quick. That&rsquo;s not taking anything away from Kyle Orton as much as it is giving Weeden a big plus.&rdquo; To say that getting Weeden up to Kyle Orton level pretty quick sure came as an initial dig on Orton but Jones quickly clarified. The question of whether the Cowboys are truly more comfortable with our without Weeden isn&rsquo;t all that important they are better off without a player who used his own agenda to stay away from football long enough to get the release he wanted and the guaranteed money that came with it. Now he is Buffalo&rsquo;s problem but then again, he is drawing two checks so Orton should be very happy with the way things worked out. &nbsp; &nbsp; Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse