2014 Chase bubble: Who's good, who's bad among winless at Richmond 2014 Chase bubble: Who's good, who's bad among winless at Richmond 
                
                
           
                    It all comes down to Saturday night at Richmond for 19 winless drivers who have shots at the final two Chase spots.

Of those, 17 can clinch a spot with a win. Two others would need a win and need help to get into the top-30 and make the Chase.

So who are the best bets among the winless to have that win-and-in moment? Here&rsquo;s a look:

Best bets

 &mdash; Bowyer has two career wins at Richmond, including the September 2012 race. He finished third and fourth in the two 2013 races at the track and started third before suspension issues sidelined him for the night in May. Bowyer has an average finish of 12th at Richmond, fourth among all current drivers.

 &mdash; Newman has six top-fives and 15 top-10s in 25 career starts at Richmond, including a win in this race 11 years ago. He was third in this race a year ago and&nbsp;eighth in April.

 &mdash; He has three career wins, albeit the last one coming in 2002. He was strong at the track in 2012, leading 133 laps in the two races with finishes of third and fourth. But he hasn&rsquo;t been good in his last two trips, including a 25th-place finish in April.

Dark horses

 &mdash; He was fast at Richmond last year as he was best in practice and then awarded the pole as rain washed out qualifying. He fell back quickly though and finished 16th. Still, he was fast at the most recent short track (Bristol).

 &mdash; He has a career-best of third at the track with just six top-10s in 24 starts. But of all the drivers looking for a win, he has the most except for Stewart.

 &mdash; He has four career top-10s in 17 career starts but two of those have come in last two appearances &mdash; seventh last September and 10th in April.

Long shots

 &mdash; He has just four top-10s in 23 career starts at Richmond and a career-best of fourth in this race last year. His average finish at the track is 22nd.

 &mdash; Has just two top-10s in 17 starts at Richmond. He has led laps in just wo races. He was 12th in April.

 &mdash; The rookie started 27th and finished 27th at Richmond in April.

 &mdash; Stenhouse has a best of 10th in three career Richmond starts. He did have four top-fives in the Nationwide Series at the track.

 &mdash; This is one of Menard&rsquo;s worst tracks with a fifth-place finish a year ago (thanks to staying out on old tires in a Hail Mary late in the race) his only career top-10 in 15 starts. He has an average starting spot of 26th and average finishing spot of 24th at RIR.

 &mdash; Has just one top-five in 11 career starts at Richmond and never has led a lap at the track.

 &mdash; Mears has one top-10 in 23 career Cup starts at Richmond, where he has led six laps and has an average finish of 24th.

 &mdash; Allgaier has one career Cup start at Richmond, having finished 21st back in April.

 &mdash; She&rsquo;s coming off a career-best finish of sixth at Atlanta. But she has finished no better than 29th in her three career Richmond starts.

 &mdash; He has three top-fives in 15 career starts at Richmond but hasn&rsquo;t started nor finished better than 20th in his last five races at the track.

 &mdash; Has a career-best of 18th at Richmond in 16 starts. His average finish? 30th.

 &mdash; He finished 33rd in his first career visit to Richmond in April.

 &mdash; In two career Cup starts at Richmond, he has finishes of 40th and 41st.
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                