Bulls fans shouldn't panic over Rose's World Cup play Bulls fans shouldn't panic over Rose's World Cup play  OK, I know what you’re thinking. Derrick Rose went 1-for-6 from the field against New Zealand! He’s got seven turnovers in three games and has been relegated to a clear back-up role behind Cavs’ All-Star Kyrie Irving!
My advice, relax, Derrick will be just fine.
Rose’s lack of numbers so far at the World Cup is largely by choice. Remember, the state championship game he played for Simeon, where he scored two points, but his team still won? That’s really the essence of Derrick Rose. He wants to be part of championship teams, and he’ll play whatever role is necessary to help accomplish that goal.

With the Bulls for most of his four pre-injury seasons, Rose took the most shots and scored the most points because that’s what the team needed. Granted, the honors that rolled in like Rookie of the Year, youngest M.V.P. in NBA history and All-NBA 1st team are impressive, but at his core, Rose is that baller from the south side of Chicago, wanting to do whatever he can to keep himself and his team on the court by winning.
There’s no question Rose is working off some rust, and maybe even holding back on his normal all-out assaults to the hoop as he comes back again from a second serious knee injury. It’s only human nature that he would have some degree of doubt over how his surgically repaired knees will hold up. But Derrick has told anyone who will listen, his knees are strong and he’s not thinking about being in “comeback” mode anymore. It’s just a process of working through almost two years without game competition and sharpening his skills.
Take a look at Team USA in some of these blowout games, and you’ll see a lot of selfish play. James Harden, Steph Curry and Irving among the biggest offenders, going 1-on-1, or in Harden’s case, sometimes 1-on-3 in an effort to pad stats and keep their sponsors back at home happy.
Rose has never been about feasting on an over-matched opponent in an effort to increase his numbers. Do you think he couldn’t have gone at former Wisconsin guard Kirk Penny in the game against New Zealand to get lay-up after lay-up? Rose is a true pro, who wants to run Mike Krzyzewski’s offense exactly the way Coach K preaches in practice, namely quick passes and cuts to find the best possible shot.

So far, he’s done a nice job in the tournament of driving the gaps and kicking the ball out to open shooters like Curry, Harden and Klay Thompson. The truth is, when the roles are reversed, Rose rarely gets that return pass when he’s open on the wing. Coach K obviously hasn’t lost any faith in Rose. He praised Derrick’s unselfish play after the win over New Zealand, and told reporters Rose would play in all three games of Team USA’s back-to-back-to-back stretch. So much for concerns about his health.
When Rose reports for Bulls’ training camp at the end of the month, he’ll have worked through a lot of the rust that might have plagued him in the early part of the regular season. Tom Thibodeau is thrilled Rose took on the challenge of playing for Team U.S.A., knowing it will only speed up his return as one of the NBA’s elite players.
Rose won’t be asked to score as much on a Bulls’ team that added scorers like Pau Gasol, Doug McDermott and Nikola Mirotic in the off-season. Instead of averaging 22 points and 6 assists, you can bet Thibodeau would gladly take 18 and 10. And Rose will be the happiest player in Chicago if those reduced numbers eventually leads to a Bulls’ championship.