It's getting closer It's getting closer September 2, 2014, 4:45 pm WILMINGTON – It may be 36 days until the Bruins open up their NHL season against the Philadelphia Flyers, but Tuesday morning marked an important starting point for the Black and Gold. Patrice Bergeron got out the whistle and stopwatch to put the rest of his B’s teammates through their paces at captain’s practice, and started the wheels of hockey progress in motion.Clearly it wasn’t full bore Bruins as evidenced by the sight of 6-foot-7 Hal Gill skating in a BU hockey camp sweater, or Shawn Thornton donned head-to-toe in Florida Panthers practice gear.When Thornton was complimented on his choice of practice tarp, he quickly responded with “Yeah, that’s the first time I’ve heard that today.”Getting back to the guys still on the Black and Gold roster, Bergeron was joined by Daniel Paille, Chris Kelly, Adam McQuaid, Tuukka Rask and Loui Eriksson among some young skaters and non-Bruins players. Teen prodigy David Pastrnak has been in town for the last week, and very much appears to be taking his chance at an NHL job seriously.  They’ll continue to skate together leading up to the Sept. 18 opening of NHL camp, and get their legs under them. They’ll also be joined by more of their teammates as the start of camp approaches, but the unusually late beginning to NHL camps across the league has the B’s players arriving a bit later than usual.Eventually they’ll all be in Boston in time for the opening camp, the traditional Black and Gold scrimmage vs. the Providence Bruins and the Sept. 23 opening of the preseason at the Bell Centre against the Montreal Canadiens.Ah yes, the same Canadiens team that prematurely ended the Bruins’ season in the second round of last year’s playoffs. That stunning ending to their playoff lives, the familiarity to the B’s lineup and the talent flowing up and down the roster all have Bergeron unsurprisingly pumped about the 2014-15 season. It may all seem a little more real when they suit up against the Habs three weeks from now, but Bergeron is bringing his trademark intensity to the first practice moments of this coming season.  “I think you’ve got to do that every time. Every time you don’t achieve the ultimate goal you have to prove something all over again,” said Bergeron. “That’s definitely on our minds this year that [we’re] starting all over, starting training camp, have a good camp and have a strong start to the season and go from there.“We definitely can’t look past that, but still we definitely are looking forward to the season. We all know that we’re going to have to bring more. All the teams are getting better.”It’s been a long, uneventful summer for the Boston Bruins paralyzed by salary cap woes, and still smarting from getting bounced by their hated rivals in the playoffs after a President’s Cup-worthy regular season. It’s certainly has felt the longest in quite some time for a B’s team that’s routinely pushed deep into the playoffs in the last few years. There’s been little time for rest or reflection for a nucleus that’s smack dab in the middle of their Stanley Cup window, but that changed with four months of idle time that won’t come to a full end for a few more weeks.There was no sign of Torey Krug and Reilly Smith as the Bruins began gathering, and the specter of holdouts is undeniably there if the unsigned restricted free agents and Boston don’t find common ground in the next few weeks. They will eventually sign with Boston because they have no other options aside from the very unlikely option of Krug going to Russia, but there may have to be a trade or two to free up some money for two youngsters coming off excellent seasons.That’s a story for a different day, however.  Right now it’s time for anybody around Boston starved for hockey to start getting excited just like Bergeron. The Bruins have become converging on Boston for the start of the hockey season, and the start of the regular season is little more than a month away.It may not feel like hockey season is near amid the sweltering, humid 90-degree temperatures in summer’s last blast, but the sound of pucks, skates and sticks on Tuesday morning officially started up the hockey clock.  WILMINGTON – It may be 36 days until the Bruins open up their NHL season against the Philadelphia Flyers, but Tuesday morning marked an important starting point for the Black and Gold. Patrice Bergeron got out the whistle and stopwatch to put the rest of his B’s teammates through their paces at captain’s practice, and started the wheels of hockey progress in motion.Clearly it wasn’t full bore Bruins as evidenced by the sight of 6-foot-7 Hal Gill skating in a BU hockey camp sweater, or Shawn Thornton donned head-to-toe in Florida Panthers practice gear.When Thornton was complimented on his choice of practice tarp, he quickly responded with “Yeah, that’s the first time I’ve heard that today.”Getting back to the guys still on the Black and Gold roster, Bergeron was joined by Daniel Paille, Chris Kelly, Adam McQuaid, Tuukka Rask and Loui Eriksson among some young skaters and non-Bruins players. Teen prodigy David Pastrnak has been in town for the last week, and very much appears to be taking his chance at an NHL job seriously.  They’ll continue to skate together leading up to the Sept. 18 opening of NHL camp, and get their legs under them. They’ll also be joined by more of their teammates as the start of camp approaches, but the unusually late beginning to NHL camps across the league has the B’s players arriving a bit later than usual.Eventually they’ll all be in Boston in time for the opening camp, the traditional Black and Gold scrimmage vs. the Providence Bruins and the Sept. 23 opening of the preseason at the Bell Centre against the Montreal Canadiens.Ah yes, the same Canadiens team that prematurely ended the Bruins’ season in the second round of last year’s playoffs. That stunning ending to their playoff lives, the familiarity to the B’s lineup and the talent flowing up and down the roster all have Bergeron unsurprisingly pumped about the 2014-15 season. It may all seem a little more real when they suit up against the Habs three weeks from now, but Bergeron is bringing his trademark intensity to the first practice moments of this coming season.  “I think you’ve got to do that every time. Every time you don’t achieve the ultimate goal you have to prove something all over again,” said Bergeron. “That’s definitely on our minds this year that [we’re] starting all over, starting training camp, have a good camp and have a strong start to the season and go from there.“We definitely can’t look past that, but still we definitely are looking forward to the season. We all know that we’re going to have to bring more. All the teams are getting better.”It’s been a long, uneventful summer for the Boston Bruins paralyzed by salary cap woes, and still smarting from getting bounced by their hated rivals in the playoffs after a President’s Cup-worthy regular season. It’s certainly has felt the longest in quite some time for a B’s team that’s routinely pushed deep into the playoffs in the last few years. There’s been little time for rest or reflection for a nucleus that’s smack dab in the middle of their Stanley Cup window, but that changed with four months of idle time that won’t come to a full end for a few more weeks.There was no sign of Torey Krug and Reilly Smith as the Bruins began gathering, and the specter of holdouts is undeniably there if the unsigned restricted free agents and Boston don’t find common ground in the next few weeks. They will eventually sign with Boston because they have no other options aside from the very unlikely option of Krug going to Russia, but there may have to be a trade or two to free up some money for two youngsters coming off excellent seasons.That’s a story for a different day, however.  Right now it’s time for anybody around Boston starved for hockey to start getting excited just like Bergeron. The Bruins have become converging on Boston for the start of the hockey season, and the start of the regular season is little more than a month away.It may not feel like hockey season is near amid the sweltering, humid 90-degree temperatures in summer’s last blast, but the sound of pucks, skates and sticks on Tuesday morning officially started up the hockey clock.