DeMarcus Cousins' attitude problems overblown? DeMarcus Cousins' attitude problems overblown? Aug 1, 2014; Las Vegas, NV, USA; USA Team Blue forward Mason Plumlee (35) reacts to his wrist being held by USA Team White center DeMarcus Cousins (36) during the USA Basketball Showcase at Thomas &amp; Mack Center. Mandatory Credit: Stephen R. Sylvanie-USA TODAY SportsNBA    Although he is a very productive player, Sacramento Kings&rsquo; center DeMarcus Cousins&rsquo; attitude problems have been well-documented. Now that he is on Team USA in the FIBA World Cup and really struggling to perform, those questions are creeping back up.  Nate Duncan of Basketball Insiders doesn&rsquo;t believe Cousins&rsquo; attitude has been that bad. I don&rsquo;t think Cousins&rsquo; attitude has been so bad. He hasn&rsquo;t been protesting after calls anymore than a lot of the Americans have, including Steph Curry and Derrick Rose in the Turkey game. I think it&rsquo;s more just that his skillset doesn&rsquo;t really fit this roster. He is good at rebounding and creating a lot of shots in the post. This team needs guys who can defend the basket and pick and roll first, then finish pick and rolls and dumpoffs second. I lauded his effort, especially against Finland. It&rsquo;s just that he isn&rsquo;t the greatest fit for what this team needs. As for his attitude improving, we will have to wait and see on that. I don&rsquo;t know him personally, and generally try to avoid taking second and third hand stories too seriously. To me it&rsquo;s more about what he does on the court. Whether that is the result of his attitude is hard to say. Last season, Cousins put up 22.7 points, 11.7 rebounds, 2.9 assists, 1.5 steals and 1.5 blocks per game while shooting 49.6% from the field and 72.6% from the free throw line. In his four-year career, the fifth-overall pick in the first round of the 2010 NBA Draft has averaged 17.9 points, 10.2 rebounds, 2.4 assists, 1.4 steals and 1.0 blocks per game while shooting 46.2% from the floor, 14.8% from beyond the arc and 71.5% from the foul line. Clearly, he showed great improvement in the 2013-2014 season. Be sure to check FanSided&rsquo;s&nbsp;official NBA page&nbsp;to keep up to date on the latest news and rumors from around the league all summer long.