EDGY's recruiting update, overview EDGY's recruiting update, overview  The 2014 IHSA football season began this past weekend, yet, from a Class of 2015 standpoint, is the recruiting season already finished?
The recruiting clock continues to be moved forward and has never been that more evident than with the current senior class.
Out of the Rivals.com Top 35 Class of 2015 recruit rankings, just eight names remain uncommitted, or in other words, 77 percent of the top senior recruits are already verbally finished.
The highest-ranked recruit on the Rivals.com State of Illinois Class of 2015 recruit rankings list is East St. Louis defensive tackle Terry Beckner Jr., who has scholarship offers from literally every major D1 power. So far, he's in no hurry to make any college choice. Actually, the only school Beckner Jr. has visited  has been Missouri. Some feel that the Tigers could have an inside track since his teammate, senior running back Natereace Strong, is already committed to Missouri. But we would guess Beckner Jr. is wide open and will most likely take all five allotted offensive visits before making a college choice.
DePaul College Prep defensive end Raequan Williams hasn't set any official visits yet, but has been talking to Oregon, Missouri, Iowa and Arizona about visit dates. Illinois also has a shot at landing his fifth official visit along with Ole Miss. Williams has visited Iowa and also Arizona.

Chicago Raby defensive tackle Jamal Milan seemed close to a decision just a few weeks ago, yet remains uncommitted. Milan has recently named Illinois, Iowa State, Indiana and Syracuse as his list of leaders and he is now expected to wait and take official visits before making a college choice.
Richards wide receiver Spencer Tears was verbally committed to Nebraska but reopened his recruiting. According to Tears, "my top three schools now are Bowling Green, Purdue and Louisville."
Lake Forest Academy defensive tackle Wesley Annan is also looking at all of his options and has yet to set any official visit dates.
"I'm still pretty open," he said. "I don't have any official visits set and I haven't named any favorites. I'm going to make official visits after the season."
Annan hails from the Toronto area has stated that academics are a high priority. He is willing to travel to find a school that's the right fit for him.