Gillick: Phillies GM, manager safe Gillick: Phillies GM, manager safe Aug 19, 2014; Philadelphia, PA, USA; Philadelphia Phillies general manager Ruben Amaro (right) talks with manager Ryne Sandberg (left) during pre game warm ups before a game against the Seattle Mariners at Citizens Bank Park. Mandatory Credit: Bill Streicher-USA TODAY SportsMLB   Pat Gillick, the interim president and CEO of the Philadelphia Phillies, told Philly.com on Tuesday that general manager Ruben Amaro Jr. and manager Ryne Sandberg will be back in 2015 despite a disappointing season. &ldquo;They&rsquo;re under contact,&rdquo; Gillick said. &ldquo;Ruben is under contract through &rsquo;15 and Ryne&rsquo;s under contract. &hellip; So right now there&rsquo;s no thought whatsoever of replacing either one.&rdquo;  Gillick is serving in place of David Montgomery, who is recovering from surgery for jaw cancer. The Phillies are 64-74 and in last place in the National League East after a 4-0 victory over the Atlanta Braves on Tuesday. Gillick is currently sharing decision-making on baseball matters with Amaro, although Gillick does have the final vote. &ldquo;Ruben and I mutually agree on most decisions that we make,&rdquo; Gillick said. &ldquo;Ruben is very inclusive on any decisions that we make for the ballclub. But right now if there&rsquo;s something I might have a different opinion, I&rsquo;ll certainly voice that opinion and we&rsquo;ll talk it through and try to make what we think is the correct decision. &ldquo;I would say if it comes down to the end, I have part of the final say. At this moment, I think ownership has a part of the say, too.&rdquo; The Phillies have had a trying campaign, with staff ace Cliff Lee limited to 13 starts due to injury. The World Series champions in 2008 and National League pennant winners in 2009, the Phillies may have retained the core of that team for too long. The Phillies are one of two teams since 1901 (the 2008 New York Yankees are the other) to have four players age 34 or older make 550 plate appearances. Jimmy Rollins, 35, had 587 plate appearances through Monday. Chase Utley, 35, had 575; Ryan Howard, 34, had 561; and Marlon Byrd, 36, had 560. So they&rsquo;re bad, but at least they&rsquo;re old.     