Greg Monroe rumors: Suns, Knicks in the mix? Greg Monroe rumors: Suns, Knicks in the mix? Nov 19, 2013; Auburn Hills, MI, USA; Detroit Pistons power forward Greg Monroe (10) reacts to being fouled in the fourth quarter against the New York Knicks at The Palace of Auburn Hills. Detroit 92-86. Mandatory Credit: Rick Osentoski-USA TODAY SportsNBA    Now that there appears to be a rift between restricted free agent big man Greg Monroe and the Detroit Pistons, there has been plenty of speculation that he could be dealt in a sign-and-trade.  Chuck Myron of Hoops Rumors takes a look at if the New York Knicks of Phoenix Suns could be suitors for Monroe. The Knicks make sense, but I can&rsquo;t see them giving up the assets that Detroit would want. The Suns have Miles Plumlee and Alex Len, who was the No. 5 overall pick just a year ago, so there&rsquo;s no need for them to make a splash for Monroe. Because the Knicks don&rsquo;t have a whole lot of assets so they would like have to hope Monroe signs his qualifying offer and becomes an unrestricted free agent in 2015 when the contracts of Knicks&rsquo; big men Amar&rsquo;e Stoudemire and Andrea Bargnani come off of the books. However, if the Suns can make a move for Monroe, it seems like a good plan. He would only add to their young core and they&rsquo;d likely give up players who will never reach the level Monroe is on now. Plus, if they traded players, they could still bring guard Eric Bledsoe back. Monroe put up 15.2 points, 9.3 rebounds, 2.1 assists and 1.1 steals per game while shooting 49.7% from the field and 65.7% from the free throw line last season. Monroe, who was the seventh-overall pick in the first round of the 2010 draft, has averaged 14.0 points, 9.0 rebounds, 2.3 assists and 1.2 steals per game while shooting 50.8% from the floor and 67.8% from the foul line. Be sure to check&nbsp;FanSided&rsquo;s official NBA page&nbsp;to keep&nbsp;up to date on the latest news and rumors from around the league all summer long.