Levine: Renteria Ready To Move New Chess Pieces Levine: Renteria Ready To Move New Chess Pieces Levine: Renteria Ready To Move New Chess Pieces

						
		
	
	

By Bruce Levine&#8211;
(CBS) &#8212; By adding seven minor league players to use, including five bullpen pitchers, the Chicago Cubs are in position to have a big impact on the pennant races, despite being out of the contention themselves.
Manager Rickey Renteria will have a bullpen that goes eleven deep every time out for the last 24 games of the 2014 campaign. 
Many baseball executives have complained in recent years that teams out of contention have an unrealistic advantage using unlimited September call-ups. The rule can alter outcomes of games in the last month. Managers with nothing to lose can start matching up multiple bullpen moves that were not available to them before September 1.
&#8220;The union will not allow any changes to the call up policy because it impacts service time for their members,&#8221; said an American League baseball executive. &#8220;We have the general managers check out the rule every off season and until now nothing has been done. To me, it is wrong when a team can match up with numbers in the last month of the season where previously they could not beat you with their 25 man roster the first five months of the season.&#8221;
As an example, Renteria has had basically only one left-handed relief pitcher to use since James Russell was traded to Atlanta in late July. With call-ups in place, Renteria starts this evening against Milwaukee with three lefties to use out of the pen. Expanded rosters mean this type of bullpen excess allows match ups in the fifth inning on. Those moves would not be an option with the 25 man roster in place the first five months of the season. 
The Cubs play 21 of their last 24 games against teams with realistic playoff hopes. In 15 of those games, the teams that will play against Chicago are within three games of a playoff berth beginning play on Tuesday.
&#8220;I try not to make excuses for what will happen on the other side of the field,&#8221; Renteria said. &#8220;I just know we are going to be prepared with the new six or seven guys. We concentrate on what we are going to do and do our homework.&#8221;


		
						
			
	
				
		Lewis Walking Fine Line Between Labor Leader And Potential Mayoral Candidate	