Boone believes he can be 'very effective' in opener Boone believes he can be 'very effective' in opener  SANTA CLARA -- Guard Alex Boone believes he will be ready to step in and play Sunday when the 49ers open the regular season against the Dallas Cowboys.
Boone ended his extended holdout this week by signing a two-year, $6 million contract with the 49ers on Monday. He spent a good portion of the offseason working out with former NFL offensive lineman LeCharles Bentley.
“That’s up to the coaches. Personally, I think I’d be very effective,” Boone said. “LeCharles and I did a lot of stuff while we were there. Obviously, it’s not like hitting, but we covered a lot of things. I think I’ll be prepared.”
Even as the 49ers were making their cuts to the regular-season limit of 53 players, the sides had not opened the lines of communication. But later Saturday, 49ers president Paraag Marathe and Boone’s agents, Neil Schwartz and Jonathan Feinsod, began talking and negotiating the terms that would prompt Boone to report to his team.
“It was both sides coming together and agreeing that we needed to get something done,” Boone said. “We wanted to get something done. And I wanted to be back here more than anything."
Boone said he was not worried that he would remain on the “did not report” list into the regular season and begin sacrificing game checks totaling more than $115,000 per week.
“I knew eventually we’d get together and get something done,” he said. “I think at first it was stalemated because you have two hard stances going against each other. And eventually coming together was a good thing. Both sides had to come together on something. It was a win-win for everybody.”
Boone met with coach Jim Harbaugh on Monday when Boone reported to sign his new contract and complete his physical examination.
“We talked,” Boone said. “Like all things, this is a business. I think a lot of people forget that this is a business first. I have to look after my wife and kids. That’s the most important thing for me. And happy we came to an agreement. (I’m) very happy to be back here, and happy to be playing with the 49ers again.”
Boone’s absence was one storyline throughout training camp. The 49ers are also dealing this week with the issue of Ray McDonald. A large portion of the team attended his birthday party on Saturday night.
In the early morning, McDonald was arrested by San Jose Police for felony domestic violence charges. Boone said he does not believe off-field distractions will impact the 49ers on the field.
“I don’t think it will at all,” he said. “We have a lot of strong guys in here. Distractions are just part of the game. People are always trying to make stories out of stuff that’s really not. So I think this team is strong enough overcome everything.“
 