Tampa Bay Buccaneers may not have OC Jeff Tedford Sunday Tampa Bay Buccaneers may not have OC Jeff Tedford Sunday Jul 28, 2014; Tampa, FL, USA; Tampa Bay Buccaneers offensive coordinator Jeff Tedford looks on during training camp at One Buc Place. Mandatory Credit: Kim Klement-USA TODAY SportsNFL   Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse  The Tampa Bay Buccaneers are getting ready to do what every other NFL team is getting ready to do. Kick off their 2014 season this weekend. Unlike the other 31 ball clubs in the NFL the Buccaneers are prepping for their first game with the possibility of being down their offensive coordinator.  Jeff Teford, 52, who joined the new Buccaneer staff along with new head coach Lovie Smith was out of action last week following an undisclosed surgical procedure. According to Rick Stroud of the Tampa Bay Times, he stopped by the facility over the weekend but has yet to return to work. &ldquo;Obviously, Jeff&rsquo;s been leading our offense through the whole offseason, so any time you take a piece away, there can be some disruption,&rdquo; quarterback Josh McCown said. &ldquo;But the coaches seem like they are, so far, doing a great job picking up the slack and doing what we need to do.&rdquo; When asked about Tedford&rsquo;s absence, Lovie Smith told the reporter that Tedford has been doing work from home. &ldquo;With technology, you don&rsquo;t have to be here every second to get work done,&rdquo; Smith said. &ldquo;Jeff is involved in what we&rsquo;re doing right now, having as much input, pretty much as he would have if he was here.&rdquo;Head coach Lovie Smith said Tedford has been working part-time from home, and wouldn&rsquo;t rule him out of appearing Sunday. If Tedford does not return to the team in time for Sunday&rsquo;s game against the Carolina Panthers the job will likely fall to quarterbacks coach Marcus Arroyo who called the final pre-season game in his place. &nbsp; Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse 