Saints bring back K Shayne Graham Saints bring back K Shayne Graham Jan 4, 2014; Philadelphia, PA, USA; New Orleans Saints kicker Shayne Graham (3) kicks the game winning field goal on the final play of the game against the Philadelphia Eagles in the 2013 NFC wild card playoff football game at Lincoln Financial Field. The Saints won 26-24. Mandatory Credit: Geoff Burke-USA TODAY SportsNFL    The New Orleans Saints&nbsp;won&rsquo;t have to go for two after every touchdown&nbsp;Sunday against the Atlanta Falcons at the Georgia Dome. After cutting kicker Shayne Graham on Saturday to down to 53 players, the Saints did not have a kicker on the roster. But the Saints solved that problem Tuesday by re-signing Graham and waiving quarterback Ryan Griffin.  The Saints originally signed Graham in December after cutting kicker Garrett Hartley. He kicked in two games in the regular season and was 2-for-2 on field goals and made all seven of his extra points. He hit four field goals in four attempts in New Orleans&rsquo; 26-24 playoff win at Philadelphia on Jan. 4, including a 32-yard game-winner as time expired. Graham was in a competition with Derek Dimke in training camp, but the Saints wound up cutting both of them. Graham was 4-for-4 on field goals this preseason with a long of 39 and was 4-for-5 on extra points, missing one of the long 33-yarders against the Rams on Aug. 8. Dimke was also 4-for-4 on field goals, with a long of 49. Graham, 36, kicked for seven years with the Cincinnati Bengals from 2003-09, earning a Pro Bowl berth in 2005. He&rsquo;s also kicked in the regular season for the Buffalo Bills, Carolina Panthers, New England Patriots, New York Giants, Miami Dolphins, Baltimore Ravens and spent time on the Pittsburgh Steelers&rsquo; roster last season. Griffin played in all four preseason games and was 48-for-77 for 623 yards and three touchdowns with one interception. He was an undrafted free agent out of Tulane in 2013 and was on the Saints&rsquo; practice squad until he was placed on the active roster in October. He did not appear in any regular season games.     