Would like to rectify errors in my game, says PV Sindhu Would like to rectify errors in my game, says PV Sindhu 
										
		Hyderabad: Expressing happiness over winning a bronze medal in the just-concluded World Championship, young Indian shuttler PV Sindhu today said she would like to learn from her mistakes and do well in the future.
"I am very happy to get a Bronze medal. This is memorable because I got it in a big event like world Championship," said the 19-year-old, flanked by Chief National Coach Pullela Gopichand, upon her return from Denmark.

Observing that it is difficult to give a cent per cent performance every time, Sindhu said she would like to rectify her errors for improving further.
"As I said, we can't do our 100 percent. Sometimes you may play brilliantly, sometimes nothing may go in your favour. You need to just rectify and come back with improved performance. It is not that other players are any less, whoever plays best on the given day is the winner," she said.
Sindhu said she could have done better in the semi-finals but some simple errors cost her the match.
"Semis, everyone is telling that you did not play your game. May be, little bit," she said.
"She (Carolina Marin) played well. I committed a bit off simple errors. You can't play 100 percent every day, things like this may happen sometimes. Overall, it was a good match, she really played well," Sindhu said.
The 20-year-old Marin from Spain eventually was crowned the World Champion after she beat World No. 1 and Olympic Champion Li Xuerui in the finals.
Gopichand complimented Sindhu for winning medals in back-to-back events but said she needs to be more consistent in her performance when the expectations are high.
"I don't think fitness was an issue. From the point of view of not being consistent enough, when you are supposed to deliver, that is something that needs to be worked on.
"But then she is nineteen and she has already big wins at big events. Overall, there are areas to work. This definitely is one of the areas to work on," he said.
Sindhu had won a Bronze medal in the Commonwealth Games last month.
Replying to a query, Gopichand said the Indian team could have done better overall in the World Championship though the players lost some matches narrowly.
"I think there were very close matches which have happened. Overall, as a team, we could have done better. Srikanth had some good matches. Kashyap could have won the match he lost. Both the doubles played really well. We could have done better in rest of the events," Gopichand said.
PTI