Tom Brady says he will retire as soon as he starts to suck Tom Brady says he will retire as soon as he starts to suck Aug 28, 2014; East Rutherford, NJ, USA; New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady (12) sits on the bench against the New York Giants during the second half at MetLife Stadium. The Giants defeated the Patriots 16-13. Mandatory Credit: Adam Hunger-USA TODAY SportsNFL    The New England Patriots have loved having a true franchise quarterback on the roster. A winning one. Someday that will change and like all other teams in the NFL will need to find a suitable replacement. In Denver it took free agent Peyton Manning signing to move on from the long retired John Elway. In Miami they are still searching for a replacement for Dan Marino. The Patriots have not had to worry about a replacement for Tom Brady and if &nbsp;you ask Tom, they won&rsquo;t have to for awhile.  Speaking with CSNNE.com Brady spoke about the loss of Logan Mankins who was traded last week to the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, Tom said what Tom always says, &ldquo;There is nowhere I&rsquo;d rather play&rdquo;. &nbsp;Eventually something will have to give. Brady however doesn&rsquo;t feel the need to be too concerned. Hopefully I can do that for as long as I can. When I suck, I&rsquo;ll retire. I don&rsquo;t plan on sucking for a long time The definition of &lsquo;suck&rsquo; can be subjective when it comes to quality of play. For Brady there is no reason to believe that he can&rsquo;t continue to play at a high level as he rarely takes crushing hits. In his career, Brady missed one season in 2008 after injuring his ACL and MCL ligaments. The Patriots still finished 11-5. Brady returned the following season and won NFL Comeback Player of the Year award. No player wants to ever be told that it is time to leave and Tom Brady will be no different. He will decide his own ending wether that is with the New England Patriots or with another organization. Brady just turned 37 in early August and at some point he will need to convince his coach and his owner that he can still play at the level they expect him to and when that time comes, Tom Brady will have to take a long look at whether or not he sucks.