Alexander’s bad day starts to spread in new TV Spot (Video) Alexander’s bad day starts to spread in new TV Spot (Video) Steve Carell as Ben in "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day." Photo Credit: Walt DisneyEntertainment    There is not a person alive today who has not at some point in their lives had one of those days when they knew in their head that they should have just pulled the covers over their eyes, rolled over, and gone back to bed. Well, in the latest TV Spot for the upcoming Walt Disney adventure Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day we take a look at Alexander and his family&rsquo;s day just like that.  Everything starts out fairly simple. The family wakes up in the morning and gets ready to start the day. Unfortunately, once things get rolling, they snowball out of control into one of the worst days that Alexander and his family have ever experienced. Alexander almost burns down his school, Dad gets attacked by an escaped kangaroo, his brother ends up getting the door ripped off of a car, and the icing on the cake&hellip;the family finds an alligator in their living room. Yeah&hellip;we think it&rsquo;s safe to say they wish they had stayed in bed. Take a look for yourselves. Here is a peek at the latest TV Spot for the upcoming adventure Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day. &nbsp; Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day&nbsp;is being directed by Miguel Arteta. While a majority of his directing experience comes from the realm of television, he has directed films like&nbsp;The Good Girl&nbsp;and&nbsp;Youth in Revolt. The screenplay for the film is being adapted by rookie screenwriter Rob Lieber.&nbsp;Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day&nbsp;will be his first professional endeavor as a writer. The screenplay is being based off of the novel of the same name by author Judith Viorst. The film stars Ed Oxenbould as Alexander.&nbsp;Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day&nbsp;also stars Steve Carell, Jennifer Garner, Dick Van Dyke, Burn Gorman, Donald Glover, Megan Mullally, Dylan Minnette, and many more. Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day&nbsp;is scheduled to be released on October 10, 2014. &nbsp;     