MLB Power Rankings: Royals, Tigers fight for October MLB Power Rankings: Royals, Tigers fight for October  Stay with us every Monday for analysis and updated MLB Power Rankings from CSNChicago.com's Tony Andracki and JJ Stankevitz throughout the season.
 Preseason | Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 7 | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 | Week 12 | Week 13 | Week 14 | Week 15 | Week 16 | Week 17 | Week 18 | Week 19 | Week 20
Rank
J.J.   
Tony
Comment
1



Swept a four-gamer vs. Oakland over the weekend and play 12 of next 13 games against Houston/Minnesota/Texas. Could run away with AL West pretty quickly.
 Very clearly the class of the league right now. Just rolling right past OAK.

2



Have the NL East on cruise control entering the season's final month.
Tony: Bryce Harper is heating up, which is a very, very good sign.
3



Could we see a Beltway World Series this year?
Tony: Dunn, Soto, Samardzija, Hammel. What is this, Chicago West?
4



 Will have to fend off the hard-charging Giants while also battling for home field advantage. 
Tony: Still narrowly holding off San Fran.
5



 They're undefeated in the Adam Dunn era.
Tony: Did you realize they have the second best record in baseball?
6



 Still have six games left with the Dodgers and not out of the divisional picture at all. 
Tony: Oh hey guys, Miguel Cabrera remembered he could hit HRs. Phew.
7



Began crucial stretch against Cleveland and Kansas City with a 12-1 win over the Tribe on Monday. 
Tony: Getting Eric Hosmer back could be the last spark they need.
8



Going to need a spark to beat out Detroit and earn their first playoff berth since 1985.
Tony: Finally getting a win from May? Priceless.
9



Teams fromLos Angeles, the Mid-Atlantic, Bay Area and Missouri comprise eight of the top 10 teams here. 
Tony: And just like that, they're back in first.
10



How huge has Robinson Cano been for them? M's haven't had a player worth over 5 WAR since 2009 -- Cano has 5.2 entering September. 
Tony: Sad this is the hottest story surrounding M's right now. 
11



Losers of six in a row but should be in good shape given Atlanta and Pittsburgh haven't really made a run yet.
Tony: Could they really miss the playoffs after all this?
12



 Playing some really good baseball and pitching pretty well, but is it too little too late?
Tony: They could've really used a sweep of the Cubs this week. Oh well.
13



Yeah, probably shouldn't get no-hit by the Phillies while fighting for a playoff spot. 
Tony: Only two games back. Still in it, somehow.
14



Play three vs. Milwaukee and four at Atlanta in late September -- those series could decide their playoff fate. 
Tony: They're still in it too. Would be awesome to see them make a final push.
15



On a certain level, it's too bad Derek Jeter's farewell tour won't include a playoff game.
Tony: The Yankees' record should not be this good. Credit Girardi?
16



Mark Buehrle's regression (he's had an ERA above 4 since mid-May) has been one of many reasons why they've sunk out of the playoff race. 
Tony: Have a +16 run differential. What an admirable season even though they won't make the playoffs.
17



These guys have an excellent core and have shown plenty of promise this year. But can a Jeffrey Loria team stay together?
Tony: Building a nice foundation for the future. Just need another piece or two.
18



 Making a run at .500 -- went 16-11 in August and are seven under. 
 Shutting down Homer Baily for the season, meaning their chances on playoffs are about done.

19



Yeesh, Wil Myers: .625 OPS, 6 HR this year. 
Tony: Now Henderson Alvarez is hurt? With a little luck, Marlins could've been a playoff team this year.
20



 Any time the words "elbow" and "surgery" are used in the same sentence, it's concerning. 
Tony: Finished August 16-11. Wow.
21



Well, this was cool. 
Tony: It's September and David Wright has a .685 OPS in 508 at-bats. Yikes.
22



Soler power is turning opponents green. (I'm so sorry)
Tony: Yep, Jorge Soler is awesome. 
23



 No-hitting the Braves a nice distraction from a clunker of a season.
Tony: Awesome no-no, but wish Hamels could have finished it.
24



August is the cruelest month. 
Tony: Sad to see Dunn, De Aza go. Neither deserved the vitriol they got on South Side.
25



Clay Buccholz has randomly thrown two three-hit shutouts this year...and has been awful in a number of other starts, too, contributing to his 5.40 ERA.
Tony: Are they trying to monopolize all the OFers? 
26



 Ron Gardenhire's a fine manager, but at what point does Minnesota need to show progress to keep him off the hot seat?
Tony: Phil Hughes (15-7, 3.54 ERA, 1.15 WHIP) a very underrated signing.
27



Managers during a rebuild are always destined to be fired, but Bo Porter probably had even less of a chance with Houston than other managers in other rebuilds. 
Tony: Would moving Tulo off SS even keep him any healthier?
28



Were a .500 team from May-July...then went 9-18 in August. 
Tony: Ender Inciarte is an intriuging young player.
29



717 runs allowed is most in the majors. 
Tony: Poor Bo Porter. Right? 
30



In real good position for next year's No. 1 draft pick. 
Tony: Don't blame Adrian Beltre for this year. He leads TEX in basically every offensive category.
