Justin Jackson jumps up Northwestern depth chart after debut Justin Jackson jumps up Northwestern depth chart after debut  Justin Jackson only got eight carries Saturday, but he made the most of them.
Jackson, Northwestern's true freshman running back, ended up leading the Wildcats in rushing in Saturday's season-opening loss to Cal. He only went for 40 yards in the game, but he made a couple impressive runs shedding tacklers along the way, including one that went for a seven-yard touchdown. It was enough for Pat Fitzgerald to move Jackson up to the No. 2 spot on the team's depth chart ahead of its Week 2 showdown with Northern Illinois.
Jackson was one of the few bright spots on a day that saw the Cats struggle on both sides of the ball, especially in the early going. But Jackson and fellow freshman running back Solomon Vault gave the team's veterans something to strive for.
“The young guys — Justin and Solomon — brought some juice to our offense," quarterback Trevor Siemian said Monday. "We talked about it, the vets kind of need to take a page out of their book in the way they competed and they way they played.”

Jackson, who starred at Glenbard North last season, is splitting carries with three other backs right now in Vault, starter Treyvon Green and Warren Long. Jackson obviously made enough of an impression to perhaps touch the ball more than eight times against the Huskies, but the whole running back by committee thing is new for him.
“It’s a lot different for me. I was used to getting 40 carries a game in high school," Jackson said Monday. "It’s nice because you know you can go out there and give 100 percent every play. If you’re tired, someone will come in for you to spell you. We all have a different running style, but I think we all flow together well. And I think in the future it’s going to be tough for teams to defend us because we have so many different styles and we’re all very good at what we do.”
The Northwestern rushing game didn't have a tremendous amount of success vs. Cal, totaling just 108 yards. But Fitzgerald thinks Jackson's athleticism and talent can bring improvement to his own game and the running game as a whole.

"He's a dynamic football player," Fitzgerald said Monday. "We saw a lot of things in him early in his high school career. Early there was no doubt we thought he could play running back or DB at this level, and obviously his career unfolded and there was no doubt he'd be a running back. I thought he had a good first performance. And I thought Solomon played well, too. The first time being out there, both those guys, they weren't scared. A little different all of a sudden toting the rock and guys trying to knock your lips off."
While Jackson was a focal point in the aftermath of the loss to Cal mainly because he stood out on an otherwise rough day for the Northwestern offense, the player and the coach aren't yet stepping into the waters of Jackson becoming an elite Big ten running back right away. Yes, he played well, but it was just his first college football game ever.
“For the first game I thought I did pretty well, but any time you lose you go back and see what you could’ve done better," Jackson said. "That 10-yard run, could you have stretched it to 15? Could you have got a first down? Things like that. I’ll just try to improve for next game.”
"He's got one game with 40 yards, so let's not put the statue out in front," Fitzgerald said. "But I thought he played well in the opener, and I think he'll do nothing but get better."