Michael Beasley's checkered past hurting him this offseason Michael Beasley's checkered past hurting him this offseason Jan 7, 2014; Miami, FL, USA; Miami Heat small forward Michael Beasley (8) looks on during the second half against the New Orleans Pelicans at American Airlines Arena. The Heat won 107-88. Mandatory Credit: Steve Mitchell-USA TODAY SportsNBA Free Agency    While Michael Beasley will never live up to the expectations placed upon him when he was drafted with the No. 2 overall pick, there&rsquo;s no doubt the small forward has morphed into a solid NBA player.  No, he won&rsquo;t ever impress anybody on the defensive side of the ball. No, he won&rsquo;t ever be a star like so many had hoped. But Michael Beasley has shown an ability to play at a relatively high level and his ability to score (and do so in bunches) is an asset front offices across the NBA are always looking for. Add in that Michael Beasley can put the ball in the hoop from both in the paint and beyond the arc, you have to wonder why interest in the small forward is so low. Well, according to Chuck Myron of Hoops Rumors, it&rsquo;s likely that Michael Beasley&rsquo;s questionable past is haunting him. &ldquo;Well, he certainly has the talent, and when he was on the floor for the Heat last season, he was productive,&rdquo; stated Myron. &ldquo;I think the issue is that teams are still reluctant to take a chance on a guy with his checkered past. He seemed to fit in quite well in Miami last season, but I wonder if the Heat&rsquo;s reluctance to re-sign him has sent ripple effects throughout the league.&rdquo; Also potentially causing issue is the fact that Beasley can at times become somewhat of a &lsquo;space cadet&rsquo; on the court, lacking an ability to focus, something that allegedly upset LeBron James last season when they were teammates with the Miami Heat. Still, issues aside, you have to think Michael Beasley will eventually get a chance as his scoring punch off the bench would be a welcome addition to most. The Los Angeles Lakers are said to have the most interest in Beasley.