Pacquiao's busy day in Los Angeles Pacquiao's busy day in Los Angeles LOS ANGELES – Manny Pacquiao appeared at the Century Plaza Hotel with a red-and-white checked short sleeve shirt and a calm expression. For the next seven hours he would change neither.He would be pushed and pulled throughout Los Angeles on Monday as he tried to build interest in his next pay-per-view fight.Some will see the pictures of Pacquiao throwing out the first pitch at the Dodgers-Washington game. Some will see him warbling a welcome-back song to the NFL on the set of Fox's pre-game show. Some will see him shooting hoops with his Nov. 22 opponent, Chris Algieri.But few will realize the forced march that Pacquiao endured to get all that done, just like other globally-recognizable athletes.The welterweight champ is no rookie at this. At times in the Phillippines, he signs thousands of autographs at a time, because he knows he is closer to a religious icon to his people than just a sports celebrity.Fortunately it was Labor Day, and the L.A. streets were refreshingly empty. Pacquiao got to the hotel at 11 a.m. and was quickly at the Fox studios, where he was interviewed by host Mike Hill.First, a Fox producer showed Pacquiao a couple of verses he'd written about NFL withdrawal. Would Pacquiao mind singing it on the set? And going over it a few times? And reading the lyrics off cue cards?Pacquiao never blinked. Sure. After all, he has sung on stages bigger than this one, especially after big victories in Las Vegas."When you left, there was a hole deep in my soul," Pacquiao sang. "Now it's whole. Until the Super Bowl."Pacquiao then ascended one floor for two interviews, one of which focused on Phillippine basketball. In the recent Phillippine Basketball Association draft, Pac-Man was taken by the Kia Sorrentos at the end of the first round. The coach of the Sorrentos? Manny Pacquiao."Basketball is the most popular sport there," he said later, in the mini-bus, and he plays whenever possible. PBA games will be the first events in a new 60,000-seat arena, near Manila. The Phillippines national team is playing in the World Cup, in fact.Still, there weren't any other 5-foot-5, 35-year-olds drafted. Basketball, along with performing onstage and handling his duties as a congressman, was supposed to have crowded boxing out of his life by now.In 2012 Pacquiao lost a highly disputed decision to Tim Bradley and then was shockingly knocked out by Juan Manuel Marquez. He spent 11 months out of the ring. "God was testing me," he said.Since then he has looked quite sharp in defeating Brandon Rios and Bradley. Talk of a monster fight with Floyd Mayweather Jr. still lingers. It might not be valid but it is more of a possibility than imminent retirement.The bus pulled up to ESPN headquarters, across the street from Staples Center. Immediately a half-dozen young men surrounded Pacquiao, asking for autographs and pictures.Algieri was waiting inside, and they did dual interviews, with both fighters standing in front of a boxing mannequin. Algieri showed how his reach and jabbing ability pulled him to victory over Ruslan Provodnikov, setting up this fight. When Pacquiao stood in front of the mannequin, he clumsily hit both its ears with his gloves, then laughed.Algieri is 30, with a master's degree in health care science and a kickboxing background. He is billed by promoter Bob Arum as "the modern day Gene Tunney" and is grabbing every ounce of gusto from this unexpected ride.Already on this tour, Algieri has taken the Ice Bucket Challenge and passed it along to Pacquiao, then engaged Pacquiao in batting (at AT&amp;T Park in San Francisco), bowling and a pop-a-shot competition at ESPN. So far Algieri is 3-0, and wants to challenge Pacquiao in chess, a sport Pacquiao cherishes so much that he flies in world-class players just for the competition."I just hope we're 1-0 on Nov. 22," said Michael Koncz, Pacquiao's manager.Pacquiao was hoping to grab a nap before his Dodger Stadium appearance, but the ESPN interviews ran long (and some of the same "greeters" tried to get a second autograph from the champ).Still, they were ahead of schedule, which prompted a publicist to tell the photographers to mark it down for history. "This is the first time Manny has ever been this early," he said, a familiar gag that Pacquiao shrugged off.Pacquiao and his party ate at the Dodger Stadium dugout club, and he asked for water served only at room temperature. Then he put on a Dodger No. 8 jersey, denoting his eight world championships.When Pacquiao visited the clubhouse, Adrian Gonzalez wore the gloves as they posed. Matt Kemp pretended to come after the champ with a bat, then laughed and embraced him.On the field Pacquiao lobbed a 59-footer into the left batter's box, which certainly beat 50 Cent's recent attempt.The group headed to the fifth-floor exit. But a publicist spotted Sandy Koufax talking to some friends outside the press box. The photographers assembled, and the two left-handers smiled together, although it wasn't clear either knew who the other was."I'm just an old player," Koufax told Pacquiao.Then ex-Laker and current TV actor Rick Fox emerged from a suite and hugged Pacquiao, telling him he was planning on coming to Macau.Inside the mini-bus, Pacquiao said he wanted to go to his house in Hancock Park. Tuesday would bring a commercial shoot and Wednesday a full-blown press conference.Then, sometime in mid-September, he would go to the Phillippines to begin assembling the brick and mortar it takes to fight 12 rounds for a championship.But now, Koncz said, Pacquiao would take a nap."No nap," Pacquiao said, more firmly than anything else he said all day. "I'll go to sleep."