Raiders draft class in position to make immediate impact Raiders draft class in position to make immediate impact  Programming note: For all the day’s sports news, tune in to SportsNet Central tonight at 6 p.m., 10:30 and midnight on Comcast SportsNet Bay Area
ALAMEDA – Draft classes shouldn’t be judged for a few seasons at least. In that vein, the regular-season opener is far too soon to evaluate. These kids haven’t played a meaningful snap yet.
A baseline for success should be every draftee making the roster. The Raiders are in prime position to see early returns from the 2014 draft class, which features three key starters, a major role player and a punt returner among eight selections.

This is less about the Raiders misgivings and more about how these players performed in the preseason. It’s obviously uncertain how these players will fare in the regular season – there could be flops in the group – but it’s an encouraging sign for a Raiders team in desperate need of foundation pieces that so many young players are in position to produce early on.
“That’s a testament to our scouting department and what [General Manager] Reggie [McKenzie] has been able to do in the offseason,” head coach Dennis Allen said. “…I know I saw a stat where we’re the oldest team in football, but I think we’ve got some young guys that have a chance to develop and be cornerstone type of players for us.”
Here’s the 2014 draft class, and their expected roles this season:
 Starting strongside linebacker, down lineman in nickel package and wildcard player in Raiders pass rush.
 Raiders starting quarterback, after beating out veteran Matt Schaub in the preseason.
 Starting left guard who should be a major factor in the run game.
 Part of the rotation at defensive tackle, and should factor heavily into run defense.
 A developmental project. He should help on special teams. Not ready to be a contributor at cornerback.
 In the running to be the No. 3 or No. 4 cornerback, but will be the primary punt returner.
 More of a power rusher who can play some inside. He needs refinement.
 The Raiders see potential, but he needs to bulk up and develop before being asked to produce defensively.
 