Fantasy football mock draft: Plan for the unexpected Fantasy football mock draft: Plan for the unexpected 
                
                
           
                    A lot of people try to plan for everything in a draft. They try to set rules for themselves and scheme for every permutation and possibility. But the truth is sometimes not even the first few picks can be accurately guessed, so good luck with the rest. Like everything else in life, plans are nice but adaptability is how to survive and thrive.

I planned to decide between  and . Instead  was unexpectedly available. I swore to myself I&rsquo;d never take a quarterback early with the depth at the position available this year. I took  in Round 2. I&rsquo;ve been the biggest  hater in the Fantasy Source office. You know where this is going, don&rsquo;t you?


I took Trent Richardson in the SN Expert&#39;s #fantasyfootball draft. What am I doing with my life?
&mdash; Benjamin Valentine (@bvalentine14) August 28, 2014



I deviated because I didn&rsquo;t feel the original plan was worth sticking to. Sometimes the draft goes towards places you didn&rsquo;t expect, or maybe at that moment, you just don&rsquo;t like a player as much as you expected to. Time will tell if I&rsquo;d have been better off going by my pre-draft book, but despite my questioning my direction in life, I like my picks. Even the Richardson one.

Top 50 for 2014 | Top rookies&nbsp;| QBs | RBs&nbsp;| WRs | TEs

(Note: This is a 12-team, non-PPR, standard-scoring, non-keeper league with 1 QB, 2 RBs, 3 WRs, TE, D/ST, K and 8 bench spots.&nbsp;Fantasy Source subscribers can see the full draft results here.)

 In fairness, I think most people would have switched course when Forte slipped here. It&rsquo;s not points per reception, but Forte&rsquo;s receiving yards, 594 of them last year, still count even if his catches don&rsquo;t.

 Quarterbacks went as I expected, but I still took Brees. Why? Because it felt as though all the players available were about the same at that point. Does any one of us really know who among, , , , ,  and  will be the best pick? No, but we are pretty certain Brees will outclass every quarterback taken behind him.

 So I ended up with Jackson here. I debated , but wanted a guy who could pass as a no.1 wide receiver. Jackson was 14th among WRs, so he fit the bill.

 Mathews burned me two years ago across my many fantasy teams. But he was a different player last year under  and finished 12th among RBs in fantasy points. There&rsquo;s risk here, but no running back is risk-free, especially in Round 4. If he can come close to last year, this is a great value.

 Though there&rsquo;s a boom-or-bust nature to Jackson, I found his upside higher than the other guys on the board (, , ) and his floor to be around the same level. There are no sure wide receiver bets in the fifth round.

 In all honesty, I think Richardson is a bad NFL running back. But he&rsquo;s a bad back with a starting job and with a franchise that seems committed in proving it didn&rsquo;t give away a first-round pick for him. In the sixth round, it&rsquo;s worth it to see if Richardson can prove us doubters wrong.

 Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. In addition to Ryan Mathews, I added Shorts to the &ldquo;failed former draft picks&rdquo; mix. Shorts is a quality player when healthy, he just can&rsquo;t stay healthy. Went upside here, over a safer but far less exciting .

 But I&rsquo;m not blind to the risks. Randle is not only insurance for the inevitable Shorts missed games, but also someone who could break out and make a case to be starting over Shorts by midseason.

 Tight end was thin, so being left with question marks and low-upside options in Round 9 wasn&rsquo;t a surprise. I was prepared to take  here, but after he went at the start of the round, I decided to roll the dice on Ertz. Someone has to pick up those DeSean Jackson yards, and I don&rsquo;t buy it&rsquo;s going to be  and I&rsquo;m not sold on Jeremy Maclin staying healthy.

 This is like Trent Richardson, only ten times worse. But I think Maurice Jones-Drew is done and McFadden, while injury-prone, should have something left in his legs.

 Handcuff time for Mathews. I have my doubts about Brown, but he&rsquo;d likely be the guy if Mathews got hurt or regressed.

 I don&rsquo;t love Ertz, so I decided to bet on another high-upside flier at the position. In Round 12, that&rsquo;s what most picks are going to be.

 With Drew Brees, your other QB&rsquo;s only purpose is to start on Brees&rsquo; bye week. That&rsquo;s Week 6, and Locker has the Jaguars.

 I probably feel slightly better about my Richardson pick because I was able to snag Bradshaw here. That wasn&rsquo;t my plan, but why not pick up some insurance this late?

 I just wrote a fantasy preview where I saw their defense is similar to last season and added high-round draft picks to the mix. Though honestly, none of the non-elite defenses (the Seahawks) really jump out at me.

 Potentially high-scoring offense, good kicking conditions, big leg, you know the drill.

 Cunningham might be good enough to start on quite a few NFL teams. As the Rams showed last year, just because you&rsquo;re the starter Week 1, doesn&rsquo;t mean you&rsquo;ll be the guy in Week 16.
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                