Controversy more likely during Chase than at Richmond Controversy more likely during Chase than at Richmond 
                
                
           
                    It&rsquo;s Richmond time, one last race for drivers to qualify for the Chase for the Sprint Cup.

And does that mean a repeat of last year?

No. At least not at Richmond.

It&rsquo;s still hard to forget what happened a year ago when Clint Bowyer spun to bring out the final caution, setting off a series of events, including his Michael Waltrip Racing teammate Brian Vickers coming down pit road under green, in moves that were designed to help their MWR teammate Martin Truex Jr. make the Chase.

NASCAR eventually came down hard on the team, fining it $300,000 and docking each driver 50 points, keeping Truex out of the Chase. That move put Ryan Newman into the Chase and eventually Jeff Gordon was added as a 13th driver to the Chase.

Truex&rsquo;s sponsor, NAPA Auto Parts, left MWR, turning the three-car organization into a primarily two-car team and resulting in Truex leaving for Furniture Row Racing.

The new Chase format, with an expanded field of 12 to 16 and now totally based on wins with ties broken by points, makes it much less&nbsp;complicated than the old system of top-10 plus two wild cards.

For the final two spots remaining, only four drivers have a chance to make it on points. Another 15 drivers have a chance to make it with a win.

Gone are calculations of who is in the top-10 and who would then get wild cards. It is pretty simple: Ryan Newman just has to finish top-18 and he&rsquo;s in, and the only person he really is racing is Greg Biffle.

Biffle is in as long as he finishes 22nd or better and a winless driver doesn&rsquo;t win. Bowyer and Kyle Larson have a shot if Biffle has an awful day.

With it being that clear, don&rsquo;t expect anyone to try to do anything to undermine who gets into the Chase. It would be pretty clear if a Roush Fenway driver did something to keep a winless driver from winning in order to get Biffle in the Chase.

And if a winless driver needs a late caution? No one is at least going to just spin out as Bowyer did. Having watched another team lose its sponsor, in addition to the harsh NASCAR penalties and the somewhat vague &quot;100 percent&quot; rule instituted last year following the episode, few are going to risk all that just to make a 16-driver Chase.

Some fans believe that Sunday night at Atlanta, Kyle Busch spun out Truex in hopes of keeping Kasey Kahne from winning and therefore helping Toyota brethren Bowyer have a better shot to get into the Chase.

Considering Busch is more than capable of getting into dustups at any time, his moves were most likely part late-race risk-taking and then frustration between the two drivers. With all three JGR drivers in the Chase, it&rsquo;s a stretch to believe that Busch did anything to manipulate the finish.

But just that idea coming into people&rsquo;s thoughts shows just how much the MWR race-manipulation scandal of a year ago is forefront in people&rsquo;s minds.

What NASCAR really needs to worry about is once the Chase starts,&nbsp;bonus points for wins don&rsquo;t carry over into the next round.

Once a driver wins in any of the three rounds of the new Chase, that driver automatically advances to the next round. So if the winner at Chicagoland gives up the lead (or any spot for that matter) to a teammate at New Hampshire or Dover, there will be immediate speculation &mdash; justified or not &mdash; if there is anything fishy taking place.

It&rsquo;s an unfortunate byproduct of not having bonus points for wins throughout the Chase, and NASCAR will have to watch things closely. That really is where the biggest incentive to manipulate a finish will come.

So while everyone might be talking about race manipulation on the year anniversary of the MWR scandal, it&rsquo;s what will happen over the following 10 weeks, and not this weekend, where those issues could come more into play.
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                