Wes Welker issues statement about suspension Wes Welker issues statement about suspension Mark J. Rebilas-USA TODAY SportsNFL    Denver Broncos&rsquo; wide receiver Wes Welker was suspended for four games on Tuesday for a violation of the league&rsquo;s PED policy. At issue is the fact that he tested positive for amphetamines that he apparently took while also &ldquo;popping a Molly&rdquo; at the Kentucky Derby.  With the world still processing this surprising bit of news in the form of memes and jokes, Welker issued a statement on Tuesday night about his suspension. In it he made sure to emphasize to everybody that he would never, ever use performance enhancing drugs. Ecstasy? Sure&hellip;.but never PEDs. Here is Welker&rsquo;s statement, which came in the form of an email to the Denver Post and is provided&nbsp;courtesy of Mike Klis: I&rsquo;m as shocked as everyone at todays news. I want to make one thing abundantly clear: I would NEVER knowingly take a substance to gain a competitive advantage in any way. Anyone who has ever played a down with me, lifted a weight with me, even eaten a meal with me, knows that I focus purely on what I put in my body and on the hard work I put in year round to perform at the highest levels year-in and year-out. &ldquo;I want any youth football players and all sports fans to know, there are NO shortcuts to success, and nothing but hard work and studying, leads to success. &ldquo;I have never been concerned with the leagues performance enhancing or drug abuse policies because under no scenario would they ever apply to me, but I now know, that (drug-policy procedures) are clearly flawed, and I will do everything in my power to ensure they are corrected, so other individuals and teams aren&rsquo;t negatively affected so rashly like this. &ldquo;I have worked my whole life to be the best that I can be, and I have encountered many obstacles over my career, and THIS WILL BE NO DIFFERENT! &ldquo;Thank you for the outpouring of support, and I want Bronco nation to know, that no one and no thing will get in the way of our goal as a team, to bring Mr. Bowlen the trophy he and this great region deserve.&rdquo; Need more NFL news? Be sure to bookmark&nbsp;FanSided&rsquo;s NFL Rumors and News page&nbsp;to stay up to date on the latest action from the world of football.