Three things we learned about the Red Sox on Monday Three things we learned about the Red Sox on Monday September 2, 2014, 9:45 am NEW YORK - Three things we learned from the Red Sox extra-innings 4-3 loss to the Rays on Monday.1) Yoenis Cespedes will make the final month interesting.Nearly every game, Castillo does something compelling.On Monday, he provided yet another timely late-inning RBI, singling home the tying run in the eighth inning. It was the 23rd RBI in 28 games, nearly half of which have either put the Sox ahead or tied the game.He also uncorked another laser throw from left that nearly threw out Tampa Bay catcher Ryan Hanihan at second attempting to stretch a single into a double in the top of the 10th.Even his decision to not chase after the game-winning single by Matt Joyce later that inning - the outfield was playing in, but the ball fell well shy of the warning track -- was somewhat unorthodox. Cespedes draws your attention with his athleticism, raw power and odd displays - like his 200-foot underhand throw from the outfield on the last homestand. You never know what you might see him do next.  3) The Red Sox are determined to take it slow with Rusney Castillo. In his first game action Sunday, they had him DH and limited him to two at-bats. On Monday, playing his second game for Gulf Coast League Red Sox, he saw action in center but again didn't play a full game, lifted after five innings.Next up for Castillo: an assignment to Double A Portland, which begins a five-game Eastern League playoff series Wednesday. That assignment itself is somewhat telling. It would have been easy for the Sox to send Castillo to Pawtucket, which begins its playoff series at home Wednesday. Castillo could have played two games in Pawtucket then traveled to Portland Friday when the Sea Dogs return home for Game 3.Instead, Castillo will travel to upstate New York (Binghampton) for his next bit of pro experience.This plan suggests that the Sox want to have Castillo play the entire series at the Double A level, acclimating himself there before "graduating" to Triple A Pawtucket, should the Pawsox move on.The $72.5 million contract and the attendant hoopla will make it impossible for Castillo to remain under the radar. But all signs point to the Sox proceeding as conservatively as they can with the outfielder.  NEW YORK - Three things we learned from the Red Sox extra-innings 4-3 loss to the Rays on Monday.1) Yoenis Cespedes will make the final month interesting.Nearly every game, Castillo does something compelling.On Monday, he provided yet another timely late-inning RBI, singling home the tying run in the eighth inning. It was the 23rd RBI in 28 games, nearly half of which have either put the Sox ahead or tied the game.He also uncorked another laser throw from left that nearly threw out Tampa Bay catcher Ryan Hanihan at second attempting to stretch a single into a double in the top of the 10th.Even his decision to not chase after the game-winning single by Matt Joyce later that inning - the outfield was playing in, but the ball fell well shy of the warning track -- was somewhat unorthodox. Cespedes draws your attention with his athleticism, raw power and odd displays - like his 200-foot underhand throw from the outfield on the last homestand. You never know what you might see him do next.  3) The Red Sox are determined to take it slow with Rusney Castillo. In his first game action Sunday, they had him DH and limited him to two at-bats. On Monday, playing his second game for Gulf Coast League Red Sox, he saw action in center but again didn't play a full game, lifted after five innings.Next up for Castillo: an assignment to Double A Portland, which begins a five-game Eastern League playoff series Wednesday. That assignment itself is somewhat telling. It would have been easy for the Sox to send Castillo to Pawtucket, which begins its playoff series at home Wednesday. Castillo could have played two games in Pawtucket then traveled to Portland Friday when the Sea Dogs return home for Game 3.Instead, Castillo will travel to upstate New York (Binghampton) for his next bit of pro experience.This plan suggests that the Sox want to have Castillo play the entire series at the Double A level, acclimating himself there before "graduating" to Triple A Pawtucket, should the Pawsox move on.The $72.5 million contract and the attendant hoopla will make it impossible for Castillo to remain under the radar. But all signs point to the Sox proceeding as conservatively as they can with the outfielder.