Jerry Jones: No one is as focused as Dez Bryant Jerry Jones: No one is as focused as Dez Bryant Aug 16, 2014; Arlington, TX, USA; Dallas Cowboys receiver Dez Bryant (88) celebrates after catching a touchdown pass in the first quarter against Baltimore Ravens cornerback Dominque Franks (42) at AT&amp;T Stadium. Mandatory Credit: Matthew Emmons-USA TODAY SportsNFL   Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse  While NFL players are getting contract extensions left and right, Pro Bowl Dallas Cowboys wide receiver Dez Bryant is still on the outside looking in with the NFL regular season set to kick off in only a few days.  Bryant is set to be paid $1.78 million this season in the final year of his rookie contract. Considering that Bryant is among the league&rsquo;s best wide receivers, he is grossly underpaid and has far outplayed his rookie contract. The Cowboys and Bryant have been working hard to work out a new contract extension, but so far nothing has been settled upon. Obviously a new contract extension is looming over the head of Bryant as the regular season is set to begin, but don&rsquo;t think for one second that it will distract Dez on Sundays. Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones spoke with ESPN radio&nbsp;105.3 The Fan this morning and explained that Bryant&rsquo;s contract extension is of the utmost importance, but even if a deal does not get done soon, you can bet that Bryant will be focused as ever. &ldquo;I don&rsquo;t want to answer that in a way that would make it look like I&rsquo;m in any way slighting the importance of getting a contract done. I&rsquo;m not,&rdquo; Jones said Tuesday on 105.3 The Fan. &ldquo;On the other hand, there&rsquo;s no one more focused on the practice or the game than Dez Bryant. Everything else, he&rsquo;s pulled the shades down on, so he&rsquo;ll be focused. He wants to get that business done. He, I&rsquo;m sure, feels that ultimately at some point business will get done.&rdquo; Although Jones is certain the contract negotiations will not distract Bryant, it can only aid the Cowboys if they get the deal done before this Sunday. An extension could only help Bryant want to prove his worth even more, and if that is the case, he could be the league&rsquo;s best receiver in 2014. Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse