Raiders injury update: Roach remains out of practice Raiders injury update: Roach remains out of practice  Programming note: For all the day’s sports news, tune in to SportsNet Central tonight at 6 p.m., 10:30 and midnight on Comcast SportsNet Bay Area
ALAMEDA – Raiders middle linebacker Nick Roach has been out 11 days with a concussion originally suffered Aug. 22 against the Green Bay Packers.
Head coach Dennis Allen said Roach continues to work through the NFL’s protocol on concussions. He was scheduled to do so on Tuesday afternoon in hopes of returning for Wednesday’s practice.

“It’s really kind of a subjective type of test,” Allen said. “He still has some symptoms but from my understanding those things can be there one day and then not the next. We’re going to take him one day at a time and see where he’s at and we hope that he’ll be ready.”
The Raiders certainly need him. They have just five linebackers on the roster. Without Roach, they have just one backup healthy.
Roach isn’t just a body. He’s an integral part of the defense, and played every snap last season.
If he can’t go, Kaluka Maiava and Miles Burris will share responsibilities at the middle linebacker spot.
Other injury Raiders injury notes:
-- Backup quarterback  insists that he’s fully healthy and ready to play Sunday if called upon, but he seemed to do a No. 3 quarterback’s work in the open portions of practice.
Despite that fact, Allen said the Raiders planned to have Schaub as the primary backup over .
“That’s the plan right now,” Allen said. "We’re still working him in. It was a while since he had really thrown (due to elbow soreness), so we’re kind of working him in and we’ll evaluate him as the week goes on. But the plan is for him to be the backup quarterback.”
-- Cornerback  (knee strain), remains out and it seems highly unlikely that he’ll be ready to play the New York Jets on Sunday. Allen said that rookie  will the extra cornerback in the nickel package.
-- Cornerback  (knee) returned to practice and performed limited reps, but those he took were at full speed. The same can be said for tight end  (knee), who returned to practice on Monday.
-- The Raiders reached an injury settlement with safety  and receiver/kick returner . They have been waived and are no longer on injured reserve.
 CB Taiwan Jones (knee)  MLB Nick Roach (concussion), CB Chimdi Chekwa (knee)  DJ Hayden (foot)  TE Nick Kasa (knee)