Minnesota Vikings release James, sign Wentworth Minnesota Vikings release James, sign Wentworth Aug 28, 2014; Nashville, TN, USA; Minnesota Vikings head coach Mike Zimmer looks on from the sidelines against the Tennessee Titans during the second half at LP Field. The Vikings won 19-3. Mandatory Credit: Jim Brown-USA TODAY SportsNFL    The Minnesota Vikings roster is continuing to take shape.&nbsp; As the cuts down to the 53 man roster took place this weekend, the practice squad started to fill out.  After claiming MarQueis Gray, the Vikings had to do a little more roster shuffling.&nbsp; Today, the team announced they have signed Austin Wentworth and released Kendall James. The Minnesota Vikings PR twitter account released the news today. The #Vikings have signed OL Austin Wentworth to the practice squad and released CB Kendall James from the practice squad. &mdash; Vikings PR (@VikingsPR) September 2, 2014 For the Vikings, James was a sixth round draft pick.&nbsp; A cornerback out of Maine, the undersized corner failed to take over time from either Josh Robinson or Marcus Sherels and found himself on the outside looking in.&nbsp; Considering he landed on the practice squad, it looked like there may be a future for him with the purple, but that appears no more. Austin Wentworth is an undrafted rookie out of Fresno State.&nbsp; The former Bulldogs offensive guard had a solid career in college being named a two-time first-team All Mountain West member.&nbsp; He impressed for the Vikings during the preseason and pushed himself onto the practice squad. With Kendall James being cut by the Vikings, he becomes the only 2014 draft pick that fails to stick with the team.&nbsp; Seventh round cornerback Jabari Price will back up Xavier Rhodes according to the Vikings depth chart. As the Vikings head into 2014, they look to their new head coach, Mike Zimmer, and his defensive expertise to right the ship and bring them back to relevance.&nbsp; With a new sense of promise, the Vikings could be the surprise team in the NFC North.&nbsp; Minnesota kicks off its season on Sunday in St. Louis against the Rams.