Kenneth Faried rumors: Denver Nuggets' star in for a big pay Kenneth Faried rumors: Denver Nuggets' star in for a big pay Apr 16, 2014; Denver, CO, USA; Denver Nuggets forward Kenneth Faried (35) dunks the ball during the first quarter against the Golden State Warriors at Pepsi Center. Mandatory Credit: Chris Humphreys-USA TODAY SportsNBA    Denver Nuggets&rsquo; forward Kenneth Faried, better known to many as The Manimal, is one of the most fun players in the league to watch. He&rsquo;s also developing into a very solid player and if his performance for Team USA in the FIBA World Cup is any indication, he is only going to keep getting better.  Plus he is still just 24 years old, which is one reason Yannis Koutroupis of Basketball Insiders believes Faried is in for a big pay day. At this point, the deals that Larry Sanders and Derrick Favors have can be looked at as the absolute floor for a Faried deal. Sanders&rsquo; deal pays him $44 million over the course of four years, while Favors is making $12.25 on average in his four-year deal that goes into effect this season. So, if the floor is $11-12.25 million and the ceiling is $17.82 &ndash; that&rsquo;s roughly a five million gap that the two sides have to negotiate with. Of course, Faried&rsquo;s contract will likely be structured with the annual 7.5 percent raises and ascend rather than having a flat rate across the board, but a deal that works for both sides is definitely achievable before the deadline given Faried&rsquo;s market value and marked improvement. Faried averaged 13.7 points, 8.6 rebounds, 1.2 assists, 0.9 steals and 0.9 blocks per game while shooting 54.5% from the free throw line. In his three-year career, the 22nd-overall pick of the first round of the 2011 NBA Draft has gone for 12.1 points, 8.6 rebounds, 1.0 assists , 1.0 blocks and 0.9 steals per game while shooting 55.4% from the floor and 64.0% from the charity stripe. Be sure to check FanSided&rsquo;s&nbsp;official NBA page&nbsp;to keep up to date on the latest news and rumors from around the league all summer long.