Cam or Tebow? Monster season or body of work stirs debate Cam or Tebow? Monster season or body of work stirs debate 
                
                
           
                    Although they spent just two seasons on the same team, Tim Tebow and Cam Newton will always be linked from their time together in Gainesville, Florida.

In 2007 at Florida, Tebow won the Heisman Trophy with a monster season that included 3,286 passing yards with 32 TDs and just six interceptions. He also ran for 895 and another 23 scores.&nbsp;The following season, Tebow led the Gators to the BCS championship with another big year &mdash;&nbsp;2,746 passing yards, 30 TDs, 673 rushing yards and 12 touchdowns.

On the sideline as Tebow piled up yards, touchdowns and victories was Newton.



As a freshman in 2007, Newton became the sixth true freshman to play in the season opener at Florida. He finished the season with 103 rushing yards, three TDs and 40 yards passing. In 2008, he played in just the opener &mdash; he ran for 10 yards and a score and passed for 14 yards &mdash;&nbsp;after injuring his ankle and received a medical redshirt.

But Newton&rsquo;s career took a different path from there. He was arrested for stealing a laptop computer &mdash;&nbsp;the charges were later dropped &mdash;&nbsp;and transferred to Blinn College. After a season there, he landed at Auburn and had one of the game&rsquo;s dominating seasons in 2010.

Newton completed 185 of 280 passes for 2,854 yards, 30 TDs and seven interceptions, while totaling 1,473 rushing yards and another 20 touchdowns. Newton won the Heisman and the Tigers ran the table, finishing 14-0 with a BCS championship.

Is one season enough to push Newton over Tebow&#39;s four-year body of work &mdash; if you had to take one or the other?

&ldquo;Cam over Tebow. Again, slight edge,&rdquo; says former Georgia QB (on the 1980 national title team) and co-host of the Buck and Kincade radio show in Atlanta, &ldquo;(Cam) did more with less. Will never forget Cam&rsquo;s performance against Alabama with that amazing comeback.&rdquo;



We polled some former players, coaches and media members to get their thoughts &mdash;&nbsp;53 percent favored Newton &mdash;&nbsp;and here&rsquo;s what they said:

 Give me Cam! I know the sample size is small, but for that one season Cam was unbeatable and unstoppable. &nbsp;Tebow never had an undefeated season and lost a game as the number 1 team in the country.

 Cam was great but Tim did it for four years.

 Cam. He had lesser talent to work with and a greater road to travel.

 Tim Tebow. He revolutionized the game in the SEC, and paved the way for a guy like Cam Newton to come in and shine. Without Tebow, would Newton have had the chance at Auburn? Would Auburn even have gone in the direction of a more spread attack? Tebow was a trend-setter and Newton capitalized on that.

 Cam was a much better passer in college and better runner because he could runaway and threw you.

 Tebow&#39;s 170.8 pass efficiency is the best in SEC history. He had a way with coming up clutch when needed. Tebow over Cam &mdash;&nbsp;by a tiny margin.

 Newton. Tebow had the longer career and stands as one of college football&#39;s greatest team leaders. But Newton was the more complete playmaker in his one-hit wonder of a season at Auburn. Better athlete, better passer, better player.

 Tebow: Excelled over a three-year span and did so without always having an all-star lineup. Character element also plays a part.
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                