Buffalo extends Hurley’s contract through 2018-19 Buffalo extends Hurley’s contract through 2018-19 Dec 21, 2013; Brooklyn, NY, USA; Buffalo Bulls head coach Bobby Hurley reacts during a game against the Manhattan Jaspers during the first half of a Brooklyn Hoops Holiday Invitational game at Barclays Center. Mandatory Credit: Brad Penner-USA TODAY SportsNCAA Basketball   Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse  Former Duke All-American Bobby Hurley&rsquo;s coaching career seems to be taking off in upstate New York. The University at Buffalo announced Tuesday it has extended Hurley&rsquo;s contract through the 2018-19 season. &ldquo;Our men&rsquo;s basketball program made tremendous progress in just one season under coach Hurley and his staff,&rdquo; athletic director Danny White said in a release. &ldquo;Our program is moving forward in the right direction and this is another positive step as we work, collectively, to build America&rsquo;s next big-time college athletics brand. Bobby is a talented coach and we are confident his leadership will bring our program to new heights in the coming years.&rdquo; One could suppose that Hurley&rsquo;s work has been as opposed to moving forward in the wrong direction. Buffalo went 19-10 in Hurley&rsquo;s first season at the helm, including a 13-5 record and first place in the Mid-American Conference&rsquo;s East Division.  But the Bulls were bounced in the quarterfinals of the MAC tournament by Eastern Michigan, 69-64, and were not selected for postseason play. Hurley spent three seasons as an assistant coach for his brother, Danny Hurley, first at Wagner and later for a season at Rhode Island before accepting the Buffalo post. Hurley was a consensus All-American as a senior at Duke in 1993 and was a four-year starter for the Blue Devils, playing in three NCAA championship games and was part of Duke&rsquo;s back-to-back NCAA championship teams in 1991 and 1992. But Hurley&rsquo;s professional career never amounted to much. He played five seasons with the Sacramento Kings and Vancouver Grizzlies from 1993-98, but was never quite the same after sustaining life-threatening injuries in a car crash in Sacramento in December 1993.      Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse