After saving UFC 177, Joe Soto appears at No. 15 in rankings After saving UFC 177, Joe Soto appears at No. 15 in rankings August 30, 2014; Sacramento, CA, USA; T.J. Dillashaw (red gloves) fights against Joe Soto (blue gloves) during the bantamweight title bout of UFC 177 at Sleep Train Arena. Mandatory Credit: Kyle Terada-USA TODAY SportsMMA    The pressure of making your UFC debut has got to be stressful for almost any athlete. Regardless of how confident you are in your abilities, making it to the UFC means that from here on out, every fight you take will be against the highest quality opponents on this earth.  In preparation for the fight you visualize your opponent, how you will defeat him, and the post fight interview you will have with Joe Rogan himself. Of course, most UFC debuts take place on the preliminary card as you build up your name with wins in the UFC. For former Bellator champion Joe Soto, that was not the case this weekend. Soto was looking forward to making his UFC debut against Anthony Birchak at UFC 177 this past weekend on the preliminary portion of the card. Soto had been training for months to step in there and defeat Birchak as he made his climb toward the bantamweight champion TJ Dillashaw. An hour before the weigh-ins, Soto&rsquo;s life changed when he got a call from the UFC informing him that former champion Renan Barao had to bow out of the main event title fight due to health issues during his weight cut. The UFC asked Soto if he was willing to take the title fight in his UFC debut on just 24 hours notice, and he did just that. As the MMA community was in an uproar, Soto was frantically trying to lose an extra pound to ensure he made the 135 pound title fight limit. Ultimately Soto made the weight, and fought valiantly a day later against the undisputed champion. Although Soto was finished in the fifth, he was far from outclassed, and in fact, looked a lot better than Renan Barao did in his first fight with Dillashaw. With Soto&rsquo;s UFC career fast tracked, the media members agreed that he should be in the UFC rankings. Today the new rankings were unveiled, and Soto sits at the No. 15 spot in the bantamweight division. Expect him to fight a contender in the top 10-15 as Soto&rsquo;s UFC career blazes a path unlike any we have ever seen before. 