Colts owner Jim Irsay suspended, fined by NFL Colts owner Jim Irsay suspended, fined by NFL  NOBLESVILLE, Ind. -- Following his plea of guilty to one misdemeanor count of driving while impaired, Indianapolis Colts owner Jim Irsay has been suspended for the team’s first six regular-season games and fined $500,000 for violating the NFL's personal conduct policy, the league announced Tuesday.
Terms of the suspension imposed by Commissioner Roger Goodell include the following:
- During the suspension, which takes effect at 5 p.m. ET Wednesday, Irsay may not be present at the club’s facility, may not attend any practices or games, may not represent the club at league or league committee meetings or at any other team or league event, and may not conduct media interviews or engage in social media regarding any team or league matters.
- In addition, Irsay is fined $500,000, the maximum permitted under league rules.
- Irsay will be subject to ongoing treatment, counseling, and testing as determined by medical professionals and the Indiana court.
The 55-year-old Irsay admitted to a Hamilton County judge that he was under the influence of the painkillers oxycodone and hydrocodone when he was arrested March 16 near his home in the Indianapolis suburb of Carmel.
Irsay will be on probation for a year, during which he must submit to drug testing, and is prohibited from drinking or possessing alcohol during that time. His driver's license also was suspended for one year. Judge J. Richard Campbell asked Irsay about his history of prescription drug troubles.
"Yes, I've had it in the past ... when I was dealing with the effects after having surgery," Irsay said in court. He left the courtroom with his attorneys once the hearing ended and didn't immediately speak with reporters.
Irsay acknowledged in 2002 he had become dependent on painkillers after several years of orthopedic operations. He said then that he had overcome the problem.
Less than 48 hours after his March arrest, the Colts said Irsay had entered a treatment facility. He was back with the Colts management at the NFL draft in early May.
Carmel police said Irsay was arrested after an officer spotted him driving slowly, stopping in the roadway and failing to use a turn signal. Officers said he had trouble reciting the alphabet and failed field sobriety tests. Various prescription drugs were found in his vehicle, along with more than $29,000 in cash.
Irsay told the judge he is still under the care of a doctor and an orthopedic specialist who prescribe medications for him. Under terms of his probation, Irsay must provide officials with all current medication prescriptions.
Irsay also faces possible punishment from NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell.
Andre Miksha, the Hamilton County chief deputy prosecutor, said Irsay's case wasn't handled differently than the 1,100 intoxicated driving cases the office handles each year.
NFL Media Services contributed to this report