FIBA World Cup 2014: Team USA, Spain out to stay unbeaten FIBA World Cup 2014: Team USA, Spain out to stay unbeaten 
                
                
           
                    Four nations, including a red-hot Team USA, remain unbeaten heading into Day 5 of the FIBA World Cup in Spain.

The Americans have shown why they are a class above in Group C, chalking up 310 points in three games, most recently downing New Zealand, 98-71, on Tuesday.



Assured of their spot in the last 16, Mike Krzyzewski&#39;s men have two games to tinker with their set-up before the knockout stages, starting with their clash against the Dominican Republic on Wednesday (3:30 p.m. ET, ESPN2).

Anthony Davis is tied for eighth in points at the tournament, level with Croatia&#39;s Bojan Bogdanovic at 57, and the Pelicans forward said the Kiwis were a good test for the star-powered Americans.

&quot;We definitely scored the ball, definitely got after it,&quot; Davis said after their win in Bilbao.

&quot;It was a good test for us. We like playing against good competition, and they were definitely one of those opponents.&quot;

Also in Group C, Ukraine can virtually end New Zealand&#39;s hopes of progressing when the two nations meet.

The Ukrainians sit second behind Team USA with a 2-1 record, having downed Turkey 64-58 in a low-scoring affair.

Eugene Jeter (50 points) has been Ukraine&#39;s top scorer at the tournament.

Turkey, fourth in the group, faces Finland in the other Group C contest, with the winner set to hold its knockout-stage fate in its hands heading into the final group matches.

In Gran Canaria, Group D leaders Slovenia will look to preserve their unbeaten status when they take on Angola.

Goran Dragic (61 points at 70.6 percent efficiency) has been the star for Jure Zdovc&#39;s charges, who can also afford to experiment having sewn up their place in the last 16.

Australia can ensure itself of progression with a win over Mexico, while Lithuania will likewise move on should it dispatch South Korea.

Host Spain has been dominant throughout in Group A, and it will look to preserve its form when it takes on France in Granada.

The match will pit the top two nations in the group against one another, although the four sides to progress have all but been set with each of Iran and Egypt winless.

The two struggling nations will face off, while third-place Serbia will take on Brazil in fourth with the winner assured of advancing.

In Seville, Group B pace-setter Greece is 3-0 but has a tough challenge to stay unbeaten against Croatia.

The winless Philippines will vie to remain off the bottom spot against fellow struggler Puerto Rico before Senegal and Argentina go head-to-head.
                    

    
    
    
    

    
    
        
        
        

                    
                    
        
    
        
                    
                