Not Del Piero or Pires, manager Zico is ISL's biggest signing so far Not Del Piero or Pires, manager Zico is ISL's biggest signing so far 
										
		Sack manager Luiz Felipe Scolari &mdash; that was the immediate reaction to Brazil's humiliating 1-7 defeat to Germany at World Cup 2014. In the aftermath and before Dunga took over, one of the names linked to replace Scolari was that of Zico &mdash; the legendary No 10 in Brazil's 1982 team &mdash; probably the most entertaining team which came together in football history.
Now that same man is coach of FC Goa in the Indian Super League (ISL). The club contacted him via Dempo's famous Brazilian player Beto's agency and after some convincing, which also included Zico making some changes to his contract &mdash; he is expected in India around 15 September.

Getting players in the twilight of their careers is one thing. The likes of Robert Pires, Alessandro del Piero and David James certainly add value to the league &mdash; but it's the signings of top managers that really make a difference to ISL's long standing promise of 'developing' Indian football. And Zico, along with New Zealand's Rickie Herbert, fits the bill.
In a sense, the Brazilian &mdash; a bonafide legend of the game, is the ISL's biggest signing so far. No skeptic can touch him or doubt his ability or legacy. No one can call him 'washed out'.
Zico's playing career is well documented &mdash; his 52 goals in 71 games for Brazil and 192 goals in 334 club appearances shows a conversion rate that few attacking midfielders can match. And while he won't bring his playing skills to the ISL, it is the experience and the class that he adds to the league which matters.
As instant impact, the players will benefit hugely from his presence. A manager who was probably better in his playing days than the whole team put together commands immediate respect. If he can do things on the training pitch which most of his players can't, it means he has a lot to offer &mdash; technical expertise, a radical change in training methods and tactical acumen developed over a coaching career in eight countries (Brazil, Japan, Uzbekistan, Turkey, Greece, Russia, Iraq and Qatar).
Zico's success off the pitch has been mixed, but only if you compare it to his exploits on it. Otherwise, his 15-year coaching career has seen him lead Japan to the 2004 Asian Cup title and World Cup 2006 (with just one loss in qualifying). He has won double league titles with Fenerbah&ccedil;e and Bunyodkor. He even took Fenerbah&ccedil;e to the knockout phase of the Champions League for the first time in their history.
His achievements with Japan came with only one player who played in Europe &mdash; Shunsuke Nakamura. This shows that he knew his local talent &mdash; something that shouldn't be expected in as short a stint as he will have in the ISL. But if the ambitious league continues, there is a chance he will come to grips with his role. As his coaching resume shows, the man has adapted to managing in alien countries.
It is exactly what the ISL needs &mdash; an experienced coach who probably grabs the attention of other high-profile coaches and players too. Zico can open the floodgates for the entry of top managers to India &mdash; something that the ISL, and more importantly India, desperately needs.