Kris Bryant will put Theo Epstein, Cubs on the clock in 2015 Kris Bryant will put Theo Epstein, Cubs on the clock in 2015  Kris Bryant will put Theo Epstein on the clock in 2015.The Cubs have purposely kept the timeline hazy, promising the business/baseball plans will sync up at Wrigley Field, but never saying exactly when the new stadium revenues will go online, exploring all TV options, not wanting to be pinned down on ETAs for big-time prospects.The Cubs had their reasons for not making Bryant a September call-up, even after a 43-homer, 110-RBI season that should make him the consensus minor league player of the year for all the prospect bibles. “He did everything he can do,” Epstein said. “He lived up to his end of the bargain.”The president of baseball operations hasn’t wavered from that plan. Cub fans and the Chicago media are now well aware of the value of a 40-man roster spot. But the time is coming where Epstein won’t keep punting for the future.
Jorge Soler, Javier Baez and Arismendy Alcantara all contributed to Tuesday night’s 7-1 win over a Milwaukee Brewers team that’s lost seven in a row and fallen out of first place. Those young core players are getting a crash course in the big leagues, while Bryant went home to Las Vegas after Triple-A Iowa’s season ended on Labor Day.  “The simple fact is we’re not in a pennant race,” Epstein said, “and for a first-year professional who didn’t miss any time, it’s a long season. It’s a long grind, whether he realizes it or not. It’s appropriate to go home and rest and go through some active rest physically and let some things soak in mentally and come back ready to go for what we hope will be a seventh-month season for him next year.”That means building a playoff-type team this winter. Anthony Rizzo and Starlin Castro have already talked about sending a message to the rest of the National League Central in September.The Cubs knocked around Yovani Gallardo, even with their All-Star first baseman sidelined indefinitely with a back injury and their All-Star shortstop leaving the game in the first inning with a sprained left ankle.Jake Arrieta (8-5, 2.81 ERA) continued his bid to be next year’s Opening Day starter, unless the Cubs use all this hard-earned financial flexibility to sign an ace like Jon Lester.
“We’ll continue to look to add talent,” Epstein said. “Will there be a little bit more focus on finding the right complementary players and rounding out the major-league roster to maximize every possible win and every possible chance at contention? Absolutely.” So the Cubs shouldn’t get automatic questions about being trade-deadline sellers as soon as pitchers and catchers report to Arizona next February. It’s not World Series or bust, but there will be expectations.  One of the first questions to Epstein and general manager Jed Hoyer at their welcome-to-camp news conference will be some version of: Is Bryant your Opening Day third baseman? “I certainly think he’s close enough to where he can start setting his sights on the big leagues,” Epstein said. “Whenever that time comes – we don’t know – but it’s getting closer. There’s a good chance that as he continues to develop, he’ll spend the vast majority of 2015 in the big leagues.”
If Bryant’s as good as advertised, why not go wire-to-wire? Does starting the free-agency clock at 2020 or 2021 really matter if the Cubs are so bullish on this rebuilding plan? What’s the priority after five consecutive losing seasons and more than a century since the franchise’s last World Series title?Bryant will say all the right things, because that’s the way he’s wired, but deep down he can’t want to spend another minute in Des Moines.“He’s as advanced and mature and professional a prospect as we’ve had,” Epstein said. “He’s as low-maintenance a prospect as we’ve had. And I think he handles these situations extremely well.
“It seems like nothing flusters him. He’s a thoughtful, cerebral, well-adjusted mature guy. If anyone can jump into a big-league picture in the middle of a season and not miss a beat, it’s Kris Bryant.”