One fight only... One fight only... 				
					
							
					
						
							
							
								One fight only... 
							
						
					
				
			
			Johnny Nelson is ruling out a comeback but says he would beat Marco Huck, given the chance.Right the first thing to say is I am not making a comeback.But would I get in the ring and fight the WBO cruiserweight champion Marco Huck? Well if he and his people want it, yes I would.This is the only fighter I would do it against. Let's be honest, it probably won't happen and I would need six months to prepare for it, but yes, I would win. I would beat Huck all day long, even in Germany, even at the age of 47.I hadn't planned any of this. I was invited out to see him defend his belt against the Italian, Mirko Larghetti. It went the distance and Huck won a unanimous decision.Basically they were making a big fuss over in Germany because Huck was making his 13th defence, equalling my record. I was invited out there but I had no idea what a big deal they were making about it. I fought there three times - and won - so I thought that must have been why.What I didn't realise was that he was wearing a crown, suggesting he was the king of the cruiserweight world. Yes a lot of the locals were behind that, but believe me one or two of the fighters I met out there told me I could beat him. And that crown is plastic. He has not boxed outside Germany - I had to go all over the place when I was champion.So when I was asked by the press how I thought I'd get on against Huck, I could have been really polite and said 'oh it would be really hard', or be really honest and said 'I'd knock him out' ... and that is what I said.They thought I was being harsh but he is simply not at the same level as the top Germans I'd fought, sparred or even knocked out. So the next question asked was I would fight him now - and I told them if they'd give me six months, I would beat him.Marco has lived in an insular world. Listen, he is a nice guy, this is nothing personal. But they think he is the king of the world, only that is HIS world. As soon as he steps outside of it, he will get hustled - and beaten.So I said that at 47, I need six months to prepare but I will beat him. It was not a soundbite. I didn't say it because I knew it wouldn't happen. I said it because I believe it. And I would beat him. They said it would be great for Huck to set the new record by beating me and I just said he wouldn't.HomelandA lot of people I know have said don't even entertain this thought, and if I was interviewing me I would be asking me what the point of this is? Why bother? You're no spring chicken! Well I am not as stupid as some people think and there is no way on earth I would do this against anyone faster, fitter, better than or even as good as me.So I am making it clear: I would only come back for for this one fight. This one opponent. No one else, not another fight, I promise you. Look, it took me five years to get boxing out of my system but this would be about me showing how they have got it all wrong about Huck and his standing in the sport.It wouldn't be about money; I want to prove a point. Yes, the decision to end my career was forced by injury so this might well give me some closure, but this is not a comeback. One fight and one fight only.It was not just me shooting my mouth off. It has of course not been confirmed, but I have spoken to the surgeon who did my hip, among others, asking me if I'd got it wrong, made a mistake. Well, I have two new knees, a new hip so I know I can, given time, get in shape to beat the current WBO cruiserweight champion.I also spoke to my wife, my family and of course the Ingles, Brendan, Dom and John. Brendan always said I should have kept my licence anyway. He said I should have boxed on until I'm 50.StatementLook at Sugar Ray Leonard. He had retired and he wasn't 47 at the time yet after three years he came back to fight Marvin Hagler - and look what happened. Look at Bernard Hopkins. He is older than me but the one thing I like most about him is he knows which battles to pick. George Foreman won a world heavyweight world title at 48 and he wasn't as sneaky or as shuffly as I am, but he still hit Michael Moore with a great shot to confound the critics.My style is to set the pace, slowly but surely wear him down, break him down, make him miss, just frustrate him from that first bell - and Marco Huck is handmade for that. His team urge him to rush in, put the pressure on, but he will walk onto one of my shots, believe me.If this did get the go-ahead, I would go for it. And if I knew I couldn't do it, I would not hide, either. If after two months, I realised my body couldn't take it physically, I would take everything that came my way and I would deserve it. I got plenty of abuse throughout my career, but I do not lie and I don't make these things up for the hell of it.The German TV companies are probably ready to get it on, the promoters are probably crunching the numbers and it is in their court. I would say it is about 40-60 against it happening but I made a statement and I will back it up.