Sky Live: Murray v Djokovic preview Sky Live: Murray v Djokovic preview 				
					
						
							
							
								Sky Live: Murray v Djokovic preview
							
						
					
				
			
			Andy Murray will draw on his experience of beating Novak Djokovic in two grand slam finals when he takes on the world No 1 in the US Open quarter-finals tonight, live on Sky.Djokovic has a 12-8 record against his old friend and rival ahead of what will be their earliest meeting between the pair at a grand slam event.But Murray has beaten Djokovic in two of their last three grand slam meetings, the 2012 final at Flushing Meadows – where Murray won his first major – and last year's emotional Wimbledon final where the Scot became the first Briton in 77 years to win the title.“They obviously will help," said Murray. "I wouldn't say in terms of getting confidence, it's just having that experience of playing those matches."They were both very long, tough matches, as well so I know that I can last those matches against him.“But anything can happen in a couple of days. I'll just do everything properly and hope on Wednesday I play a good match."Murray is relishing the prospect of tackling the world No 1 under the lights at the Arthur Ashe Stadium, his second-favourite arena after Wimbledon’s centre court.“I think that's really why we play the game,” he said. “That's what you put the work in for, so that when you come to these events and you do have to play against the best players, you're ready."And as much as it's incredibly tough and challenging, that's what you enjoy. Playing on Wednesday night against the number one player in the world is exciting."If you aren't getting motivated or pumped for those matches, then that's when there's a problem and it's time to maybe stop."Murray’s victory over Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the fourth round was his first against a top 10 player in over a year. The 2014 season has been a struggle for the Scot. He has won a title of some sort in each of the past eight years – but this year, not only has he failed to lift any silverware, he has not even reached a final.Coming into New York, there were some doubts about Djokovic’s prospects too after his surprise defeats in the warm-up tournaments. He was beaten by Tommy Robredo in the last 16 in Cincinnati, and hammered by Tsonga in the last 16 at the Toronto Masters. That performance in Canada was probably his worst in the last few years.But he has answered the doubts emphatically – he has not dropped a set in four matches in New York.Murray admits he will need to play to his absolute maximum if he is to beat the seven-time grand slam winner."He knows how to play on centre court at the US Open where he has played some great tennis and we've had some great matches,” he added. “It's a very tough draw. I'm going to have to be playing my highest level in order to advance."I think he performs his best in the grand slams. He's been on and off this year but I think in the big matches, as the tournament progresses, he's still fit.“He still plays very high-quality tennis. That's what I expect him to do."Watch all the action from the US Open live on Sky Sports 3, with coverage from 4pm. Murray v Djokovic is expected to start in the early hours of Thursday morning.