Calvin Johnson believes Detroit Lions can win title Calvin Johnson believes Detroit Lions can win title Dec 22, 2013; Detroit, MI, USA; Detroit Lions wide receiver Calvin Johnson (81) quarterback Matthew Stafford (9) and wide receiver Kris Durham (18) stand around during the fourth quarter against the New York Giants at Ford Field. Giants beat the Lions 23-20. Mandatory Credit: Raj Mehta-USA TODAY SportsNFL   Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse  There is a positive vibe in the Detroit Lions organization, with a handful of players praising the level of talent on the roster and expressing their belief that the Lions will finally be able to have that breakout year.  As far as star wide receiver Calvin Johnson is concerned, the Lions this year have the talent to go all the way. When speaking to the media, Johnson said that&nbsp;&ldquo;this is our best chance&rdquo; to win a championship. &ldquo;I honestly believe that,&rdquo; Johnson said, via the Detroit Free Press. &ldquo;And you&rsquo;ve got to buy in. You&rsquo;ve got to buy into the coaches&rsquo; philosophy, and we have. I believe that everybody is doing exactly what the coaches want us to do, and if we&rsquo;re not, if something is not like he wants it, he&rsquo;s going to tell us and we&rsquo;re going to get better at it and he only has to tell us one time.&rdquo; The Lions are in the middle of the road in the NFL when it comes to strength of schedule this season, so they won&rsquo;t have as difficult of a time putting together an impressive season as 15 other teams in the league &mdash; so it says on paper. However, the Lions will need to take their confidence and reflect that with their play if they want to make a deep run in the postseason. It will all begin on Sept. 8, when the Lions host the New York Giants on Monday Night Football. For more news on the NFL and&nbsp;Detroit Lions, be sure to&nbsp;check out our news and rumors page&nbsp;right here on FanSided.com Next postPrev postUse your ← → (arrows) to browse