Santa Barbara's Bacara Resort & Spa Adds Health and Wellness Experiences Santa Barbara's Bacara Resort & Spa Adds Health and Wellness Experiences With one of the largest spas on the West Coast, the Bacara Resort &amp; Spa in Santa Barbara has expanded its spa services to the rooftop and beyond the 42,000-square-foot spa facility. “Bacara’s location on one of California’s largest untouched coastlines cannot be minimalized in any way,” says Kathleen Cochran, the resort’s general manager. “When designing our new menu, we didn’t need to look any further than outside our front door.”
  
The spa’s new rooftop terrace with views of the deep blue Pacific gets you out of the treatment room and into the California sunshine for al fresco massages and other treatments. The roof space also includes private lounging areas for sunbathers and a mud bar where you can apply marine muds to your skin.
	
								 
 
Beyond the sprawling spa complex with its adults-only saline swimming pool, health and wellness devotees can explore the property’s 78 acres on a network of nature trails.&nbsp; One hike leads to the highest point of the resort where yoga classes and boot camps are offered on a green lawn with sweeping views of the pristine Gaviota coastline.
								
										 
 
The resort has also partnered with members of the local indigenous Chumash culture to build the self-guided Chumash Nature Trail. Chumash artists, writers, and herbalists created signs along the quarter-mile trail illustrating how 20 native plants on the property have historically been used by the Native Americans. Some of the organic herbs and salts are incorporated in the heated compresses used in the Gaviota Herbal Therapy, one of 60 specialized treatments offered in the Spa. 
 
This year, Bacara has also developed an intensive fitness vacation in conjunction with Sky Ranch Fitness, a private 1,200-acre ranch in nearby Santa Ynez with a team dedicated to helping you jumpstart a healthier lifestyle and achieve your long-term fitness goals. The weeklong all-inclusive program (from $4,290 double occupancy) encompasses rigorous daily hikes, personalized fitness training, and healthy meals and snacks with menus developed by Sky Ranch’s certified nutritionist Nancy Dale and Bacara’s executive chef David Reardon.
										
										 
 
You are also rewarded for good behavior with three spa treatments and a wine tasting and chef’s dinner at Foley Vineyard. “We guarantee results by managing your week,” says Stuart Gildred, managing director of Sky Ranch Fitness. “We feed you healthy and nutritious food, keep you moving for five to seven hours a day, and make it fun and entertaining.” 
Read more about the art &amp; craft of&nbsp;luxury&nbsp;at&nbsp;Atelier.