How To Tell If You Have A Healthy Relationship How To Tell If You Have A Healthy Relationship There are relationships, and there are entanglements.  Read on to discover the four signs that mean you're not experiencing the kind of real love you truly deserve -- and what to do about it.Are you in a relationship, or are you in an entanglement?A relationship is one in which both people are free to be themselves, yet there is no shortage of intimacy.  No fear that doing what you love or being who you are or taking time for yourself will drive the other person away.In a relationship, neither person needs the other to "complete" them.  Both people are awake to themselves, their feelings and thoughts, and are open to the flow of love and attention with one another.It's about two equals celebrating together rather than "needing" something from the other.In short, a relationship like this is one where both people are in harmony.  And that's exactly what it feels like: in tune, relaxed, and just plain fun.Entanglements, on the other hand, look and feel very different.Signs You're in an EntanglementEntanglements may look like a relationship on the surface.  You might spend a lot of time together, you've met each other's friends and family, and people refer to you as a "couple."But you're not having a real relationship -- at least not one that is characterized by love and harmony.Here's what entanglements masquerading as real relationships look like:1.  You keep having the same issuesWhen you find yourself having the same old argument with your partner for the umpteenth time, that's a pretty good sign you're likely in an entanglement.  If you had the same problem in your previous relationships, or keep picking partners with similar issues, that's a tip-off, too.  Patterns that repeat -- especially from relationship to relationship -- indicate that you have unresolved feelings from the past, creating a destructive dynamic that keeps you from enjoying harmony.2.  You don't feel safe or understoodOne of the clearest signs of entanglement is that it is hard for one person to let the other person feel his or her feelings and tell the truth about them. Entanglements feel like you have to shut down a part of yourself.  If you're feeling like your partner just doesn't get you, and that you're not free to say exactly what's on your mind, you know you're not in a real relationship.3.  Someone always needs to be rightIn a real relationship, each person is "awake" to his or her role in a problem, and the priority for both is relationship growth. Entanglements are characterized by power struggles.  Both people are vying for the title of victim, thus making the other the perpetrator.  Nobody ever wins.4. It's just so hardIf you're feeling drained with your partner, you're likely caught up in an entanglement.  In a harmonious relationship, both people take responsibility for any issues that arise, and they come up with creative solutions that further add to the positive feelings they share.What to Do if You're in an Entanglement: 2 StepsSo what if you have the terrible feeling that you're in an entanglement right now, or that you've been in entanglements before?Relax: It's completely normal.  Most people have been in an entanglement, and a lot of them have been in many.We all come to relationships with unresolved issues from our past, and we naturally look to our partners to make us feel good about ourselves.  And so it's always a surprise when we finally think we've found love, only to experience pain and frustration.  The problem often isn't that we've chosen the wrong partner, it's that we're not looking at the root cause of our disenchantment.  So, here's what you need to do:Step 1:  Identify that you're in an entanglementKnowing whether you're in a pattern of entanglement is key to resolving it once and for all.  Otherwise, there's a "blind spot" that keeps you from moving forward, and you're doomed to keep repeating the pain and struggle.Step 2:  End the entanglement or transform it into a real relationshipOnce you know you're dealing with an entanglement, you can harness all that energy you've been spending on conflict, and instead use it to come up with creative solutions.  You can transform the entanglement into a real relationship, or you can end the entanglement with peace of mind, armed with the insight you need to create love and harmony in the future.Katie and Gay's free relationship e-newsletter, Hearts In Harmony, explores the challenges and glories of lasting love. Based on the tools they've developed throughout their 30+ year marriage and taught to thousands, you'll learn powerful insights and practical techniques you can start using today -- whether you're in a relationship or eager to attract one. www.heartsintrueharmony.com
Read our eBook now___________________Also on The Huffington Post: