Our Mommy Blog Faves: Time, Food & Time-... Our Mommy Blog Faves: Time, Food & Time-...       
      
          
  
  The Pretty Bee
          
                      
    
    
          The Pretty Bee Kelly at "The Pretty Bee" blogs all about food, family and cooking around her sons' food sensitivities. She gave readers a recipe for four-ingredient chocolate covered coconut bars just in time for back-to-school season. Not only are they a simple sweet treat, they're also a great substitute for a candy bar in kids' lunch boxes.
      
      
          
  
  Iowa Girl Eats
          
                      
    
    
          Iowa Girl Eats For those looking to spend less time in the kitchen, Kristin, voice of "Iowa Girl Eats," has the list for you. This mom has put together 16 of her favorite recipes that take 30 minutes or less! Kristin's picks include slow-cooker and gluten-free options.
      
      
          
  
  Life Alaskan Style
          
                      
    
    
          Life Alaskan Style Whitney of "Life Alaskan Style" has many posts that show the natural beauty of her state—which, if you hadn't guessed, is Alaska. With her two little ones tucked into a wagon, she was able to spend an afternoon with them picking shelled peas at a local farm. Food, nature and a relaxing couple of hours enjoying both of them—sounds like a great day to us!
      
      
          
  
  The Perks
          
                      
    
    
          The Perks As school and extracurricular activities pick up, it's time to look to a family's best friend—make-ahead freezer meals. Katie, writing at "The Perks," recently posted a recipe for vegetable enchiladas. The best part: It easily can be changed to include the best-in-season produce.
      
      
          
  
  Maybe Matilda
          
                      
    
    
          Maybe Matilda Has your child ever tried to put you in timeout? Rachel recently wrote on her blog "Maybe Matilda" about her 4-year-old son and his love of telling her to "be weally quiet in there and don't you dawe come out until I tell you to!" Her response is something we think everyone could use to bring a little less stress to their day: "Don't fight the toddler. Just take. the. time. out." Many of Rachel's readers have already commented with similar tales. What have you gotten "in trouble" for with your little one?
      
      
          
  
  
          
                      
    
    
          
          
                    
                  
  