Japan tackles dengue fever outbreak Japan tackles dengue fever outbreak Japan tackles first dengue fever outbreak in 70 years

        

        
                
                    
                        Japanese officials are working to eradicate mosquitoes at Yoyogi park
                    
                Japan is battling its first outbreak of dengue fever in almost 70 years, with at least 22 people confirmed as being infected. The health ministry said the cases were believed to have been contracted by visitors to Tokyo's popular Yoyogi Park. An outbreak of dengue fever was last recorded in Japan in 1945. The tropical disease, which is spread by mosquitoes, causes symptoms like high fever and severe joint pain. Severe cases may require hospital treatment and can occasionally develop into a potentially lethal complication called severe dengue, according to the World Health Organisation.
                
                    
                        Signs warning tourists and locals about mosquitoes have been placed at Tokyo's Yoyogi Park
                    
                
                
                    
                        Sections of Tokyo's Yoyogi park have been cordoned off since the reported cases
                    
                Japan sees imported cases of dengue fever each year, mostly from tourists who catch it while travelling to tropical regions, the health ministry said. Domestic mosquitoes could have picked up the virus from tourists and passed it on, it said. Now the government is working to tackle the park thought to be the focus of the outbreak. New warning signs have been put up and teams of workers in white overalls and masks have descended to spray insecticide and drain its ornamental ponds, says the BBC's Rupert Wingfield-Hayes in Tokyo.The spread of the disease has been helped by an exceptionally wet summer but authorities say the outbreak should be killed off by the onset of autumn weather, our correspondent adds. There are no vaccines or drugs against dengue but medical experts said avoiding mosquito bites was the best precaution.A government hotline for dengue fever queries was set up last week. 