Another American Doctor Tests Positive for Ebola Another American Doctor Tests Positive for Ebola 
Another American doctor working for the missionary group SIM has tested positive for Ebola in Liberia.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                US Ebola Patients Released From Hospital
                                                                
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
The doctor was treating pregnant women ELWA Hospital in Monrovia, Liberia, according to SIM. But he was not treating Ebola patients in the hospital’s separate Ebola isolation facility, the group said, adding that it was unclear how he contracted the virus.

“My heart was deeply saddened, but my faith was not shaken, when I learned another of our missionary doctors contracted Ebola,” SIM president Bruce Johnson said in a statement.

The doctor "immediately isolated himself" and has since been transferred to the ELWA Ebola ward where he is "doing well and is in good spirits," according to SIM.

Full Coverage of the Ebola Outbreak

Human Trial for Ebola Vaccine to Begin This Week

Ebola Outbreak: Life Inside the Hot Zone

SIM is the same missionary group that Nancy Writebol had been working for when she contracted Ebola in July. Writebol and fellow American Ebola survivor Dr. Kent Brantly, who worked for the aid group Samaritan’s Purse, were evacuated from Liberia to Emory University Hospital in Atlanta for treatment and declared virus-free. Writebol was discharged on Aug. 19 and Brantly went home two days later.

Since March, the deadly virus has killed 1,552 people and sickened 1,517 others, according to the latest numbers from the World Health Organization.

The virus has also sickened at least 240 health workers, half of whom have died, according to WHO.