5 tips to 'supercharge' your morning routine 5 tips to 'supercharge' your morning routine 
						
					
						
					How you spend the first few minutes of your mornings can help set the tone for a productive, fulfilling day. Starting the day exhausted and in a bad mood can leave you waiting for the day to be over instead of enjoying every moment.&#160;

Having a regular routine that uplifts you can motivate you to get up in the morning, even if you’re not a morning person. Here are some simple things to incorporate that can help get you on track for a productive day.

Visualize

Before you start creating good habits, spend some time thinking about what you want those habits to be and acknowledging the bad habits that keep it from happening. How many times do you hit snooze before getting out of bed, are you always late and rushing out the door without breakfast or do you just want a happier morning? Once you visualize what you want your morning to look like, you can start to take the steps to make it happen. Take a few minutes to make a step-by-step list of the things you want to do every morning, and then get everything prepared to make your mornings easier.

Meditate

Starting your morning with a few minutes of quiet can put you in a positive mindset for the rest of the day. If you don’t have a meditation practice, incorporating one can make a world of difference — not only to your day, but your entire life. According to the Mayo Clinic, meditation provides a sense of peace, calm and balance that will benefit your overall health, as well as your emotional health, helping to reduce stress, worry and anxiety. The benefits of meditation continue throughout the day providing a sense of calm peace. If the practice is new to you, simply start with five minutes and build your way up. Practicing deep breathing exercises first thing in the morning is a great first step to get you into the habit of sitting quietly.

Think positive

Every morning, we have the opportunity to shift our mindset to a positive one and set an intention for the day. Our attitudes, beliefs and intentions can help shape our experiences as they do our thoughts, actions and perceptions. Taking a few minutes to reflect on how you want to feel and what you want to accomplish goes a long way in creating a positive attitude for the day. An easy way to get into the habit of doing this is to write down your intention and positive affirmation every morning and repeat them to yourself throughout the day. Create a special morning journal or simply write it on a sticky note so you can take it with you.

Fuel up

Fueling your body properly in the morning gives you the energy, mood boost and hydration necessary to conquer the day. Water is essential to keep your body functioning properly, so keep a large glass of it by your bed and always make it the first thing you put into your body every single morning. Putting together a healthy breakfast with some protein is also essential to starting the morning with plenty of energy. Avoid processed foods and sugar, and instead, opt for a nourishing meal including healthy fats and proteins. Pastured eggs, wild salmon, nuts and seeds are excellent, easy-to-prepare choices. Even a few bites of breakfast will go a long way in preventing hunger pangs later in the day.

Prepare

Before you go to bed, run through your morning list and prepare as many things as you can. If having breakfast isn’t a regular part of your routine, try preparing something the night before. Lay out a journal to help remind you to take a moment to set your intention for the day. As you start adding these tips into your life and supercharging your mornings, don’t forget to smile. The simple act of smiling, even if it is to yourself, can help you feel better and instantly brighten your mood.