EXCLUSIVE! Jay Z And Beyoncé's Trainer Marco Borges Offers Some Final Healthy Nuggets Of Wisdom! EXCLUSIVE! Jay Z And Beyoncé's Trainer Marco Borges Offers Some Final Healthy Nuggets Of Wisdom! 
Third time's the charm!
We have had the distinct privilege of gaining some valuable insight from Beyoncé and Jay Z's personal trainer Marco Borges, founder of 22 Days Nutrition and the 22 Day Vegan Challenge, on how one can go about making their lifestyle much more healthy! 
Well, in an EXCLUSIVE interview, Marco shared his thoughts on not only what needs to be attained for a healthy lifestyle but how one can start moving in that direction! 
Part of that kind of lifestyle includes managing one's stress and individuals thinking in the moment &#8212; all subjects that Marco touches upon in this latest and last part of our interview with him!
Here's what he said about the multi-faceted factors that go into leading a healthy lifestyle:
“It's not just about how you eat, it's not just about how much you exercise.  There's different components, there's different factors involved. I found them to be:
1. Diet and nutrition
2. Exercise and physical fitness 
3. Sleep/rest/relaxation
4. Stress management 
5. Love
A lot of times you find that people eat because they get depressed or they're sad, and many, many times it has to do with not having enough love or not having the proper support system in your life.”

Here's what he said about the importance of managing stress:
"When stress goes up, cortisol levels go up in the body.  When cortisol levels go up in the body, your body tends to hold onto fat.  Anything that you eat that could potentially make you heavier or fatter will automatically gravitate towards that.

Here's what he said about the importance of thinking in the NOW:
"Thinking in the now is really about understanding what it means.  Someone can say, ‘I’m definitely in the now, I'm just going to enjoy this cookie.’ However, if you're really in the now, you understand what that means!
It means that for the next 30 seconds, you're going to enjoy this cookie and the minute that you finish the cookie or the brownie or whatever that guilty pleasure is, regret and remorse set in. I'm not talking about just eating ONE cookie, but that action could trigger people to lose control.
No one ever gains weight or becomes obese if they had a cookie or because they had a chip or because they had a soda.  It's physically the feelings and the effects that come thereafter.  I always say, ‘be very present, and understand what it is that you're putting into your body.’
If you're at work, and you're standing by the vending machine and you're like, ‘you know what, I should prepare myself, because everyday at 2 o'clock I do the same exact thing.  I come to this machine, and I grab a Snickers bar and it's really not what I want.  I get antsy because it's that middle of the day.’
Instead, start bringing in carrot sticks to work, take that 15 minute break time and walk around the block or make a phone call and catch up on your personal life.  Whatever it is, understand the mechanics behind the behaviors that physically lead to lifestyles and dietary discretions. If you that, then you're golden.  You found a way. 

Wow! 
So many good pieces of advice - we don't know where to start!
Actually, we do. We start NOW, and so should you!!
P.S. &#8212; Check out the FIRST PART of our awesome Exclusive interview with Marco HERE!!
P.S.S. &#8212; Check out the SECOND part of our fantastic Exclusive interview with Marco HERE!! Hopefully this won't be the last we hear from this man with the incredible plan!!
