The 15 Best September Covers Of Vogue Under Anna Wintour's Reign The 15 Best September Covers Of Vogue Under Anna Wintour's Reign 
From top models to top models with lots of celebs in between!
Since Anna Wintour's been at the helm, the American version of Vogue's been more popular and relevant than ever!
And the September issues have only become a bigger and bigger deal as a result!
Here, we take a look back at some of Anna's most memorable September covers since she took over as editor-in-chief in November of 1988! 
Check 'em out &#8230;AFTER THE JUMP!!! 

1) Anna's first September cover in 1989 as Vogue editor went to Naomi Campbell! It was also Naomi's first solo cover for the magazine!

2) Supermodel Linda Evangelista was the reigning cover queen of the early '90s. Here, she poses against a typical Vogue grassy background for the September 1993 issue!

3) Supermodels and besties Shalom Harlow and Amber Valletta appeared on the September 1995 issue of the magazine. Anna Wintour was fond of putting two or three models on the cover in those days!

4) Renee Zellweger became the first celebrity during Anna Wintour's tenure at Vogue to grace the cover of a September issue. She made her debut in 1998!

5) After Renee, celebrities became far more common cover stars for the magazine. Gwyneth Paltrow made one of many appearances on the September 1999 cover!

6) Linda Evangelista scored another September cover in 2001, but models became much less frequent on the magazine's covers as the years rolled on.

7) By 2003, A-listers had pretty much monopolized the September issue of the magazine, with Nicole Kidman even being named a style icon right there on the front page!

8) The September 2004 issue heralded a return to models on the cover, featuring a foldout with the year's hottest models, including Gisele Bundchen, in the spotlight.

9) Sarah Jessica Parker is close friends with Anna Wintour, so of course she'd score a September cover at some point. Here she is in 2005!

10) Kirsten Dunst as Marie Antoinette graced the September 2006 issue, looking regal and so very pink! It was the perfect tie-in to Sofia Coppola's movie and a great homage to the outrageous fashions of the French queen!

11) Sienna Miller's cover for Vogue's September 2007 issue was the subject of The September Issue documentary. At the time, it was also the biggest issue EVER for the magazine, weighing in at nearly five pounds! You might also remember that Anna Wintour had her photography team Photoshop an image of Sienna's face onto a different image of her body to get the perfect photo.

12) Halle Berry appeared on the magazine's September 2010 cover, one of the very few women of color to do so during Anna Wintour's many years as editor-in-chief. 

13) Following the September 2004 issue, models didn't show up again on the front of a September issue until Kate Moss in 2011. The cover was also highly reminiscent of Linda Evangelista's 2001 September cover, featuring a purple off-shoulder dress and green, natural background.

14) After a super successful year, which included winning an Oscar, Jennifer Lawrence was a natural choice as the cover star for the September 2013 issue!

15) Models made a triumphant return to the front of the September issue this year in 2014! It's been ten years since the last model group got the honor!
[Image via Vogue]
