Donetsk, Ukraine -- The United States has warned of a ''significant escalation'' in the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, after Kiev announced the capture of 10 Russian paratroopers ahead of a key meeting Tuesday between the estranged countries' leaders.
''Repeated Russian incursions into Ukraine unacceptable. Dangerous and inflammatory,'' US National Security Adviser Susan Rice said on Twitter late Monday.
[caption id="attachment_177899" align="alignleft" width="300"] THEY WERE THERE ¨C A Ukrainian soldier stands where Ukraine¡¯s border guards had been on duty before they were allegedly fired on by Russian troops, near the Ukrainian-Russian border in the Donetsk region. (EPA)[/caption]
Rice accused Russian forces of ''military incursions'' into Ukraine using artillery, air defense systems, tanks and troops, representing a ''significant escalation'' in the conflict.
''Russia has no right to send vehicles or cargo into Ukraine without Gov¡¯t of Ukraine's permission,'' she said.
Her comments came after Kiev's security service said soldiers from the 98th airborne division based in central Russia were captured near the Ukrainian village of Dzerkalne, about 50 kilometers southeast of the rebel hub Donetsk.
''Investigators opened a criminal probe into illegal border crossing by Russian armed citizens,'' the security service said in a statement.
Ukraine's Defense Minister Valeriy Geletey said the soldiers were captured on Monday.
''Today Ukrainian armed forces captured many Russian soldiers,'' Geletey wrote on his Facebook page.
''Officially they are at exercises in various corners of Russia. In reality, they are participating in military aggression against Ukraine,'' he said.
''I am addressing the relatives of Russian servicemen: find out immediately where your loved ones are. Take them out of Ukraine, where they are being forced to die.''
Kiev has long accused Moscow of stoking the separatist insurgency raging in its east, but this is the first time Ukrainian authorities have claimed to take soldiers from Russia's regular army captive.
Moscow has repeatedly denied any involvement in the rebellion in Ukraine, saying any evidence pointing to this has been fabricated.
Earlier on Monday, Ukrainian military spokesman Andriy Lysenko said troops had halted a column of tanks and armored personal carriers flying rebel flags from Russia heading towards the government-held port city of Mariupol.
But Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov dismissed the claims, saying: ''There has been more than enough disinformation about our invasion. No doubt some foreign newspaper will print that 'news' tomorrow.''
Meanwhile, President Petro Poroshenko on Monday dissolved Ukraine's parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, and called early elections -- accusing some lawmakers of supporting the rebellion in the east that has cost some 2,200 lives in the past four months.
''Snap parliament polls are part of my peace plan,'' the Ukrainian leader said.
''The current makeup of Verkhovna Rada supported (ousted former leader Viktor) Yanukovych,'' Poroshenko said, accusing lawmakers of passing ''dictatorial'' laws under the former Moscow-backed president.
Poroshenko and Russian President Vladimir Putin are due to attend a meeting Tuesday between leaders of the Russian-led Customs Union and senior EU officials, including foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton, in Minsk, the capital of Belarus.