Obama Administration, Trial Lawyers Mount Attack On Franchise System Obama Administration, Trial Lawyers Mount Attack On Franchise System The decades-old franchise system survived a potentially fatal attack in California last week when the state’s highest court rejected an attempt to find Domino's Pizza liable for alleged sexual harassment by a supervisor at a franchisee’s store. Had the court ruled the other way, the entire legal structure separating franchise companies from the independent businesses that operate retail outlets would have been in jeopardy, since businesses frequently adjust their national policies to adapt to the law in the largest state. 
The Obama administration, aided by trial lawyers, is still trying to undermine the structure, however. The Democratic-controlled National Labor Relations Board, in two high-profile cases, is trying to change the law to make franchisors “joint employers” of anybody working in a franchisee store. Trial lawyers, meanwhile, continue to try and pierce legal wall separating the two so they can tap the deep pockets of corporate parents, especially when they are trying to convince juries to award punitive damages.
	
								 
“If the California Supreme Court had gone the other way, we’d be living in a completely different world right now,” said Anthony Oncidi, a partner in Proskauer’s Los Angeles office who focuses on labor and employment law. 
The Domino’s case might seem puzzling on its surface, because of the seemingly small stakes: A woman working three to four days a week sued her employer over a supervisor’s alleged sexual advances, but both the employee and the supervisor apparently drifted away from their jobs, making it hard to prove large economic damages. But that ignores the huge potential jury verdicts lawyers can win in the right courtroom, such as this $26 million award a 66-year-old man won in Los Angeles after accusing Staples of age discrimination and harassment. It was one two $20 million-plus verdicts in Southern California this year by workers who would have trouble proving even a small fraction of that in lost wages and other identifiable economic damages.
								
										 
“The real objective for trial lawyers is to bring in another set of deep pockets for the phase of the case in which they attempt to prove the amount of punitive damages that should be awarded,” Oncidi said. “They would much rather have a punitive damages award based on the income and profitability of the franchisor rather than just that of the franchisee.”  
 
 
  
  Holy grail for SEIU organizers? (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
  
 
Similarly, the Obama administration is pushing hard to extend the responsibility for labor laws — particularly the obligation to bargain with union representatives — to franchisors, building owners, and other businesses that use the services of employees who work for a separate corporate entity. The NLRB general counsel’s office has intervened in two prominent cases to urge a significant change in the law, broading the definition of employers beyond merely those who have the power to hire, fire, supervise and discipline workers. 
In July, the NLRB general counsel said it would hold McDonald’s liable for labor-law violations if the franchise giant couldn’t negotiate a settlement, in what was widely seen as a huge victory for the Service Employees International Union. That union desperately needs more income to shore up its mismanaged and underfunded pension plans, a problem that obviously could be mitigated with the help of dues and pension contributions from millions of McDonald's workers. Only by targeting the national parent, however, can SEIU accomplish its goal.
										
										 
The NLRB general counsel’s office also has intervened in a case against Browning-Ferris in which the Teamsters are trying to pull the waste-handling company into unionization negotiations with a subcontractor at a California recycling plant. The regional director refused to declare Browning-Ferris a “joint employer” of the workers, but headquarters in Washington intervened, seeking a review of the decision. The Obama administration makes its position clear in a brief on the case: The definition of “joint employer” should be loosened to include any company that “wields significant influence over the working conditions” at an employer. 
The NLRB “should abandon the existing joint-employer standard because it undermines the &nbsp;fundamental policy”&nbsp; of federal labor laws, which is “to encourage stable and meaningful collective bargaining,” says the brief. It comes from the office of General Counsel Richard F. Griffin, who was appointed to his post by Obama in 2013 after serving as&nbsp; general counsel of the International Union of Operating Engineers. 
And the administration isn’t just targeting industrial subcontracting relationships. Franchising, it says, also “illustrates how the current joint-employer standard undermines meaningful collective bargaining” by inserting “an intermediary” between companies and workers.&nbsp;Hospitals, nursing homes and commercial real estate owners also exert significant control through the prices they pay for cleaning services, laundry, and security guards, the brief says. 
Building owners who purchase security services under cost-plus contracts, for example, have such influence over the wages paid to security guards that it would be an exercise in futility for them to bargain with anybody but the property owner. The “industrial realities” of other businesses could dictate who is liable for labor-law compliance, the brief says. A coal distributor that dictates the price it will pay for coal might functionally be dictating the wages of miners and thus serve as joint employer, for example. 
This is all worrisome to employers, of course. The National Association of Manufacturers, franchise companies and hospitals have all filed briefs in opposition to the administration’s position. 
“If the labor board’s right and it’s not actual, direct control but some broader, amorphous concept, potentially every cost-plus contract in the U.S. is subject to a joint employer interpretation,” said Zachary Fasman, a partner in Proskauer’s New York office. The real threat is to contractual relations based on decades of established law, setting out who has responsibility for what. 
“The NLRB has been criticized forever because it does seem to swing back and forth,” Fasman said. “But the definition of joint employer has been the same for 30 years.” 
Whether or not the NLRB succeeds in these cases, franchisors and contractors will remain under attack as labor unions struggle to reverse many years of declining membership. Oncidi said the California Supreme Court may be only a brief respite since the opinion’s author, Judge Marvin Baxter, is scheduled to retire next year and Gov. Jerry Brown is likely to replace him with a liberal. Three judges dissented from the opinion and Oncidi urged employers to look carefully at the arguments they made in that dissent, avoiding doing anything, like pushing franchisees to fire or discipline workers, that might make them the equivalent of employers themselves. 
“There are some important lessons in the opinion for all franchisors,” he said. “They should study the dissent and see what Domino’s was doing that very nearly resulted in its going to a jury in this case — for example, allegedly instructing the franchisee to terminate at least two if its employees.” 
 