3 Ways To Jump-Start B2B Sales Productivity 3 Ways To Jump-Start B2B Sales Productivity 
			

		

					    


			
				Sell. Service. Market. Succeed.
					
			

			
				
			
		

		
			Salesforce.com began with a vision to reinvent CRM in the cloud and a commitment to donating 1% of our equity, 1% of our employees’ time, and 1% of our product. These two key decisions have fueled our incredible growth, made us the global leader in CRM, defined the era of cloud computing, and inspired a new philanthropic model. Today, thanks to our dedicated employees, partners, and customers, our industry-leading CRM platform has become the world's leading enterprise cloud ecosystem. Using the latest innovations in mobile, social, and cloud technology, we help companies connect to their customers in a whole new way—and sell, service, market, and succeed like never before.
			


					Twitter

					Website

				Profile

			
		




							
			    

	
		Connecting marketers to the Forbes audience. What is this?
	
	
		
		
		
			Forbes &trade; allows marketers to 
			connect directly with the Forbes audience by enabling them to create 
			content – and participate in the conversation – on the Forbes digital publishing 
			platform. Each &trade; is produced 
			by the marketer. 
			
			More on &trade; here
			, or email us directly at 
			brandvoice@forbes.com.
			Opinions expressed by Forbes ™ Contributors are their own. 
		
	

							

						

						

						


								
When it comes to B2B sales, volume isn’t the only thing that matters. For individual salespeople, sales teams, and managers, productivity—the ability to use limited time efficiently and effectively—is increasingly crucial to success. 
These findings may not be brand-new, but they’re worth revisiting. Not too long ago, Jon Vander Ark—co-author of the book Sales Growth—and his colleagues wrote&nbsp;that CEOs needed to get serious about sales by:  
 
 Making sales success a cross-functional team sport. 
 Building a ‘lean’ sales machine that’s continuously experimenting and learning. 
 Cranking up analytics to create greater visibility into what’s working and find opportunities for growth. 
 
 
&nbsp; 
1. Make Sales a Team Sport 
In one&nbsp;interview, Vander Ark gave an example of how small acts to improve the visibility of new, large, potential deals enabled an industrial firm to double their sales. His example illustrates how simple awareness of key situations can trigger contributions and learnings that improve the performance of sales teams. 
 
In a related interview with&nbsp;Anthony Iannarino, Vander Ark notes how experimentation with disciplined execution can let important issues trump urgent issues (the inverse of what’s normal). In this case, a European firm concluded it needed to put more effort into Business Development. By creating ‘hunter days’ in which everyone in the firm called on 10 prospects, they went on to generate two months worth of leads in a single day. 
3. Cranking up analytics 
Their findings confirm what we’re seeing:  . When it’s clear what’s working and what’s not working, choices about what practices to engage in become obvious. Analytics help. Analytics applied to disciplined, experimental, sales execution help more. Analytics that seed the development of good sales habits help most. 
This post originally appeared on the Salesforce.com Blog. 
Read more: 
5 Experts on What Makes a Great Sales Manager 
Free E-Book: Sales Experts Answer Your Toughest Sales Management Questions 
John Cousineau is the Founder and CEO of innovative information inc.