China Breaks Promise Of Democratic Elections For Hong Kong China Breaks Promise Of Democratic Elections For Hong Kong Any lingering hopes of seeing “genuine elections” in a Chinese territory in the foreseeable future were dashed on Sunday, when the country’s legislature announced that it would severely restrict candidates for the upcoming election of Hong Kong’s top leader.
	
								 
The National People’s Congress Standing Committee has rejected proposals put forward by various groups that would have allowed open nominations from the public and will instead require candidates to be prescreened by a committee. 
“Hong Kong people will not be able to have meaningful choices,” said Joseph Cheng, a professor of political science at CityU and the convenor of the Alliance for True Democracy. “There will be no genuine election. We can not accept this kind of system.”
								
										 
China’s leaders had promised Hong Kong during its transition from British rule in 1997 that there would eventually be direct elections for the city’s leader and lawmakers. After waiting for nearly two decades for the right to vote and stand for elections as described in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Beijing is loathe to even loosen its grip on the levers of power. 
In fact, the NPC’s decision appears to be a step backward from the current system that relies on an Election Committee of 1,200 members selected from constituencies largely beholden to Chinese officials. Under the proposal, candidates for the city’s top post will require at least 50% of the votes from a Nominating Committee based on the current composition of the Election Committee. 
“Today is the darkest day in Hong Kong’s democracy movement,” said Benny Tai, a Hong Kong University law professor and one of the organizers of Occupy Central, a civil disobedience movement that threatens to close down the city’s business district. He and other activists are promising a series of protests. The Hong Kong Federation of Students are planning to boycott classes. 
Within hours of hearing the proposal, 25 lawmakers from the pro-democracy parties have already vowed to veto the measure during a rally held outside of government headquarters in Hong Kong. The bill would need approval from two-thirds of the 70-member legislature to pass.
										
										 
Cheng later added, “We not only have to fight for a democratic electoral system, we realize that we have to work very hard to maintain our core values, our lifestyle and our very personal dignity. We are very concerned that Hong Kong may soon be reduced to just another big city in mainland China.” 
Since the handover, Hong Kong has become increasingly polarized as residents’ frustrations mount due to exorbitant housing prices, a widening income gap, the erosion of press freedom, national education classes seen as brainwashing and an influx of mainland tourists.