Strategy Shift At CBS Wins Renewed Favorable Ratings on Wall Street Strategy Shift At CBS Wins Renewed Favorable Ratings on Wall Street Politics and sports will score big for CBS in the near term, but what’s attracting Wall Street now is the silent transformation of its business model designed to enhance even more the outlook over the long term. The shift makes the major media and entertainment giant less dependent on cyclical advertising and enables it to exploit sources of growth of high-margin revenues.&nbsp; 
That has stirred renewed excitement among a number of Wall Street analysts who favored CBS’s move to balance revenue sources between content and advertising. It won plaudits from analysts who quickly upgraded their investment ratings on CBS and raised their valuation of its stock.
	
								 
“CBS has now shifted its mix of revenues to lessen, but not eliminate, its dependence on variable ad revenues (now about half of the total mix), while increasing exposure to newer revenue streams that are growing and very high margined,” says James C. Goss, analyst at Barrington Research. 
He has reaffirmed his rating of “outperform” for CBS, with a stock price target of $79 a share, currently trading at $59. His price forecast reflects a blended enterprise value/EBITDA multiple of just under 12 times his 2014 estimates, assigning higher values to entertainment and cable networks and a somewhat lower multiple to broadcasting.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
								
										 
Goss points out that CBS is stepping up efforts to generate reverse compensation payments – now called program payments – international syndications and deals with digital distribution platforms such as Netflix, Hulu, and Amazon.com which, he notes, largely leverage the company’s&nbsp; existing library content that is typically fully depreciated but has continuing value.&nbsp; 
At Morgan Stanley, CBS is one of its “Best Idea” stocks and rates it as overweight. “We are attracted to its position as a pure play content investment with a structural margin improvement opportunity,” says Benjamin Swinburne, analyst at Morgan Stanley. Beyond its strong retransmission-fee outlook, which he estimates would jump from $550 million in 2014 to $2 billion in 2020, the additional feature to its transformation is its declining exposure to advertising and the implication for leverage or borrowing capacity for some of its growth and shareholder-friendly plans. 
CBS has announced a $6 billion share-repurchase authorization and a 25% hike to its dividend, bringing the dividend yield to nearly 1%. Goss assumes CBS will repurchase $4 billion worth of shares between now and 2015, but notes that the company will still have the ability to stay at its leverage target even at the high end of the $6 billion buyback range. 
How cheap is CBS’s stock? Attractively cheap, according to Goss, who notes that the stock is trading at 9 times enterprise value/EBiTDA (2016) and only 12 times price-to-2016 estimated earnings, compared with the broader peer group’s 14 times projected 2016 earnings.
										
										 
Laura Martin, analyst at investment firm Needham, who rates CBS a buy, has the highest price target for the stock, at $83 a share. She bases her price target on her operating earnings forecast of $3.28 a share for 2014 on projected revenues of $14.38 billion, rising to $4 in 2015 on estimated revenues of $15.25 billion. In 2013, CBS posted earnings of $3 on revenues of $15.28 billion. CBS has split-off its outdoor division which accounted for 13% of 2012 revenue and 1% of EBITDA. 
“We look forward to the simplicity that can return to CBS financial statements now that Outdoor is gone,” says Martin. She also says she likes the 50/50 revenue mix of advertising vs. non-ad revenue for the first time ever. 
Daniel Salmon, analyst at BMO Capital Markets, who rates CBS as outperform, also welcomes the transformation at the company. “CBS has the best mix shift opportunity as it diversifies away from more economically sensitive advertising revenue toward recurring revenue streams; the divestiture of the Outdoor segment drives this trend in the near term,” argues Salmon. CBS is leading the way, he notes, in pushing for broadcast retransmission fees and has targeted $2 billion in total by 2020. 
Salmon says that with CBS raising the share buyback amount and emphasizing that any M&amp;A will not disrupt it, “investors will continue to benefit from the retirement of shares to drive earnings-per-share growth.” &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 
Jessica Reif Cohen, media analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, perfectly sums up the Street’s positive outlook for CBS: &nbsp;“We believe CBS will benefit from an improving earnings mix due to growing subscription based revenue streams, solid fundamentals across the board and support from its current share repurchase authorization.” And strong ratings in a healthy advertising market “drove a leading broadcast 2013 upfront for CBS, notes Reif Cohen, and “format changes at Radio have driven station performance.”