10 Digital Job Openings at WebMD, the Onion, American Express and More 10 Digital Job Openings at WebMD, the Onion, American Express and More Image: Flickr, Romer Jed Medina

Are you beginning to feel complacent at your current job? The Mashable Job Board is the ideal place to search for your next big move. More than 3,000 employers in tech and digital have posted on our board, and they're looking to fill positions from Mashable's community.
Each week, we highlight 10 recently posted openings. Check out this week's newest listings, below, and be sure to read our Job Search Series for valuable career tips.


Position: VP of AccountsCompany: the OnionLocation: Chicago Illinois
Onion, Inc. is the parent company of some of the most respected and widely-read publications in digital media. Founded in 1988, the company established itself as a web pioneer in the mid-'90s when The Onion and its sister pop-culture publication, The A.V. Club, were some of the first well-known print products to start online incarnations. Today, Onion, Inc.'s websites reach more than 11 million unique visitors every month, an increase of almost 30 percent year-over-year.
Position: Social Media ManagerCompany: SpotCoLocation: New York, New York 
SpotCo seeks a Social Media Manager to build and manage social communities for Broadway productions and other entertainment brands. This role reports to the Senior Social Media Manager, and includes the following responsibilities: Oversee social media communities for multiple productions on multiple platforms.Serve as the social media ambassador to members of the cast, creative team, producing team, agency account team, press team, and other key stakeholders. Manage editorial calendars to determine the most effective content for each brand as well as the ideal posting frequency and optimal times for posting and more
Position: Web Designer for Marketing/Direct Response AdsCompany: HappifyLocation:New York, New York
Happify.com is searching for a freelance web designer to work on a project-basis on Direct Response marketing display/banner ads.
Position: Social Media StrategistCompany: Taco BellLocation: Irvine, California
At Taco Bell, we aren’t just looking for candidates. We are looking for social media rock stars who understand millennials and online culture better than anyone else. So if you don’t know Bethany Mota and Tyler Oakley, stop reading and look them up on YouTube now. We are seeking a new addition to our award winning team who can fill the role of Social Media Strategist and lead the charge for content across all of our social channels.
Position: Advertising Sales ManagerCompany: FiksuLocation: Boston, Massachusetts
Fiksu is currently seeking talented individuals who have 3-5 years of Sales experience in a digital media, start-up or mobile company. As a Advertising Sales Manager for Fiksu, you will be responsible for uncovering and closing new business for our innovative marketing platform in the U.S markets. This role will be located in Boston and qualified candidates should have experience selling in the Mobile Gaming market.
Position: Data JournalistCompany: AJ+Location: San Francisco, California
The successful candidate will be responsible for producing interactive elements that can allow visitors to easily navigate through stories that have mass amounts of data surrounding them. The data journalist will drive the production of compelling infographics and visually compelling products for a mobile and social audience.
Position: Director, Search Engine OptimizationCompany: InvaluableLocation: Boston, Massachusettes
Invaluable is looking for a rockstar Marketer to join our growing, results-driven Marketing team. The Director, SEO will work cross-functionally with Invaluable’s Marketing, Product and Engineering teams to lead SEO initiatives to drive organic growth across all web properties. This individual will impact Invaluable’s presence in search engines, organic traffic growth efforts, and content marketing strategy. The ideal candidate will combine passion for growing organic traffic via search engines along with a desire to help consumers find the items they covet. This position requires a combination of strong analytical abilities working with our data, along with proficient technical experience to bring ideas that flow from that analysis to life
Position: Product ManagerCompany: ooVooLocation: New York, New York
ooVoo seeks an experienced, mid-senior level Product Designer to develop user interface designs for ooVoo mobile and desktop apps. In this position, you will execute all comps from conception to completion, and will focus initially on projects involving Android, but will eventually work across other platforms. You will work with the Products Team to ensure that the vision of the project is carried across all platforms while maintaining a quality design. This individual is enthusiastic, dedicated, and continually pushing their skills to help ooVoo develop in new ways.
Position: Manager, Product DevelopmentCompany: American ExpressLocation: New York, New York
Are you a customer experience driven, digital product manager? Can you define an end-to-end product experience that engages our Card Members and merchants and differentiates American Express in the electronic and mobile commerce landscapes? The Digital Partnerships and Development Team (DP&amp;D) is focused on developing innovative digital products, services and partnerships for American Express to help transform payments into commerce and drive online spend and share. DP&amp;D is looking for a Product Manager to drive large scale, fast moving projects from concept to launch. The Product Manager will be responsible for defining product features and requirements, articulating use cases, and defining the customer experience for new innovative digital initiatives.
Position: Global Community and Content ManagerCompany: WebMDLocation: New York, New York
Medscape, a division of WebMD, develops and hosts physician portals and related mobile applications that make it easier for physicians and healthcare professionals to access clinical reference sources, stay abreast of the latest clinical information, learn about new treatment options, earn continuing medical education credits and communicate with peers.

Check out more career opportunities on the Mashable Job Board. New positions are posted daily, ranging from entry-level to C-suite positions.


Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.