Sands China Plays Show Card, Macau Rivals Ready Own Stages Sands China Plays Show Card, Macau Rivals Ready Own Stages Macau is on the verge of a major outbreak of theaters and arenas, despite a mixed record when it comes to entertainment. Non-gaming revenue barely reaches 10% for any of the six licensees, languishing below 5% for most. Still, Galaxy Entertainment, Wynn Macau and Melco Crown Entertainment say their new Cotai resorts will include arenas, and everyone plans more performance venues. Some experts see entertainment in integrated resorts mainly as a way to generate traffic to the property, expecting that show goers will also visit the casino. 
“If the competition believes it is about traffic, good luck to them,” Sands China president and CEO Ed Tracy says. Sands China has enjoyed some of biggest entertainment successes in Macau, such as last November’s Manny Pacquiao-Brandon Riggs boxing match broadcast worldwide and a Rolling Stones concert in March at its flagship Venetian Macao casino resort. It’s also suffered the most visible failure, the shutdown of&nbsp;Zaia, a $150 million Cirque du Soleil show, in 2012, three and a half years into a projected 10 year run. The closure was particularly embarrassing because Melco Crown’s City of Dreams’&nbsp; House of Dancing Water stage extravaganza opened across the street in 2010 and became an immediate hit. But House of Dancing Water remains the only permanent stage show in Macau, while there are dozens of choices in Las Vegas and a steady stream of shows in two theaters at Marina Bay Sands in Singapore, a property of Sands China’s corporate parent Las Vegas Sands.
	
								 
 
Setbacks aside, Sands China aims to lead Macau in entertainment. That drive emanates from research about the desires of Sands’ primary customer base in mainland China, Tracy, who joined the company as president and chief operating officer in 2010 and became CEO a year later, says. The top item Chinese consumers want is shopping for “genuine” luxury goods, which Sands China delivers with 500 outlets at three Cotai malls,. The second item is “high quality entertainment experiences.” When Zaia closed, Sands China converted the space into the 1,500 seat Venetian Theatre to compliment the resort’s 14,000 seat Cotai Arena. Sands Macao on Macau peninsula also has a smaller theater.
								
										 
Tracy spoke with me following the China premiere screening of The Expendables 3 attended by stars of the film Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger plus UFC mixed martial arts fighter Ronda Rousey, who also appears in the action hero ensemble cast. The screening didn’t generate much traffic; only 1,500 people attended, selected from Sands China’s customer loyalty program, VIP players and community groups. But it fits what Tracy describes as a three pronged strategy in entertainment. 
“We’re trying to raise the visibility of Macau, raise the visibility of the brand, and, since we’re in business, make some money,” Tracy explains. Each of those objectives was woven into the Expendables event. Bringing Schwarzenegger and Stallone to Macau, along with a bevy of Hong Kong celebrities, for a full-fledged red carpet event generates plenty of headlines for Macau. So does the UFC fight card, held the following night, and Sands China’s dozens more stage and sporting events annually. 
These high profile events, replete with celebrities such as Sands China brand ambassador David Beckham “don’t necessarily drive a lot of traffic, but they create an emotional connection,” Tracy says. “We have seriously raised the visibility of Macau, a stated goal of the Macau government.” Macau still isn’t known for entertainment and glamour, a reputation Las Vegas has enjoyed since the days of the Rat Pack in the 1950s. But Tracy believes perceptions of Macau’s entertainment scene trail reality. “The biggest obstacle to entertainment in Macau is that people don’t know there’s a lot more to do in Macau now than three years ago.” 
High profile entertainment events also provide exposure for the Sands China brand without mentioning gaming. Casino advertising is prohibited in mainland China and many other jurisdictions around Asia, so Macau gaming operators have to find creative ways to promote their properties. Advertising shows at a property where everyone knows there’s a casino is a dependable method for skirting such bans.
										
										 
Another example of entertainment linked promotion is Sands China’s sponsorship of television singing competition The Voice China, which attracted 500 million viewers for its latest season finale. In addition to the normal benefits of association with a television hit, The Voice China stages two live shows each season at Venetian Macao. 
Sands China and other operators stand ready to welcome film shooting on their properties, which are far more spectacular than the laughable fake purported to be a Macau casino in the James Bond film Skyfall. Asia’s blockbuster hit of this past lunar new year, From Vegas To Macau with Chow Yun-fat, includes scenes shot at Venetian Macao. Hosting entertainment award shows is also a staple, combining glamour, broadcast reach and venue mentions. Hosting the International Indian Film Awards at Venetian Macao in 2009 bred South Asian interest in Macau and particularly the Venetian, where palak paneer is now a regular on the brunch buffet. IIFA came back for an encore at Venetian last year. 
“There’s an entertainment offering for every segment we’re going for,” Mr Tracy says. The DreamWorks Experience at Sands Cotai Central offers a variety of interaction opportunities with studio characters, including a daily parade, photo opportunities and themed meals. Like some of the Asia pop concerts prominent in Sands China’s music offerings, “They’re not necessarily targeting our main demographic, but for their children.” 
Sands China didn’t sell tickets for its screening of The Expendables 3, but used it as a reward for top customers, encouraging their future patronage. For other events, be sure to bring your wallet and crying towel. Tickets for the upcoming Pacquaio-Chris Algieri fight range from $110 to $3010. That’s a juicy box office, making it more understandable that other Macau operators want to emulate Sands China. 
Aspiring rival impresarios should note that Sands China’s three stages had shows last year for a total of 96 booking dates, or less than one performance for every weekend night. Experts caution that overbuilding may dilute the quality of offerings, but there’s clearly room for more shows and more creative entertainment programming in Macau. “We welcome all challengers,” Mr Tracy says. “The more Macau has, the better for all of us.”