Where Others Cut, United Expands Inflight Meal Service Where Others Cut, United Expands Inflight Meal Service Inflight meals used to be the norm in air travel, but with high competition and cost cutting measures, they’re now becoming a thing of the past. The only place in which they still exist domestically is in first class, and even those offerings are somewhat limited. 
The major constraint for inflight meal service is the time required to cook and serve a meal. For most legacy carriers, that distance was about 750 miles; on flights shorter than that only a snack or other limited meal service can be reasonably offered. Through cost cutting measures though, the airlines have slowly been pushing that 750 mile minimum up. American American airlines, once highly regarded for their inflight meal service, this month announced that they were cutting their offerings on a wide range of flights, a move that they claim helps align them with their merging partner US Airways. Like leg room, the entire industry is moving towards leaner, more austere offerings — and higher profits.
	
								 
 
It’s surprising, thus, to see United taking an opposite tack and actually expand the number of flights on which they offer hot meal service. Late this month, the airline announced that on a range of their short-haul flights the meal service would be improved, upgrading snack boxes to freshly prepared meals, improving salads and even offering Prosecco in some cases. It’s a move contra to the industry’s trend right now, and one that will surely help endear the airline to premium, business travelers.
								
									 
Appealing to that market is exactly the goal of United’s improvement. Over the course of its rocky merger with Continental and the recent devaluation of its mileage program, the airline has been hemorrhaging business travelers, a demographic that is both loyal and profitable. As USA Today suggests, this move may help woo some of those lucrative travelers back. 
More importantly, the increase in meal service may signal that the bottom of the meal-cost-cutting has been reached. Now that the airlines have returned to profitability, it may be time to return humanity to the traveling public. 
Updated meal service is scheduled to roll out on September 1.