Record Recalls Drive Repair Business To U.S. Car Dealerships Record Recalls Drive Repair Business To U.S. Car Dealerships Recalls are on a pace to set a new record of more than 30 million this year, analysts said. 
General Motors is generating the most headlines on recalls, but there are major recalls for several other manufacturers, too.
	
								 
Nobody’s celebrating all those recalls, especially since safety defects have been linked with several fatal traffic accidents. 
But there’s no getting around the fact that the massive number of recalls is generating a ton of business for the nation’s car dealerships. So much so, that many dealer groups reported earlier they are hiring more technicians so they can keep up with demand.
								
										 
The manufacturers reimburse dealerships for performing recall-related work. Also, dealerships naturally enough are not going to pass up the chance to “upsell” anybody who comes in for recall-related work, to see if they need any other work done. 
“There’s no doubt that the activity that we’re seeing as far as recalls is a benefit to our dealerships and to our company,” said Keith Style, CFO for Asbury Automotive Group, Duluth, Ga. in a recent conference in New York for analysts and investors, hosted by JPMorgan Chase &amp; Co. 
 
Style said customers don’t seem to hold it against their dealership when there’s a recall.
										
										 
“I don’t know that there’s any negativity of receiving a recall as a consumer, I don’t know that there’s negativity towards the dealership where we’re seen as the one that’s going to help in this situation,” he said. 
“Because it’s another opportunity to reconnect with the customer, to collect data and information and to wow the customer with our service in order to get them back into the store. So it’s a great opportunity for us,” he said. 
Style echoed many other industry experts when he said auto manufacturers seem to be quicker to agree to recalls, ever since Toyota Motor&nbsp;recalled millions of cars over issues with “sticky accelerator pedals” in 2010, followed by a huge settlement in 2012. 
“You know, ever since the Toyota recall, the sticky pedals and the $1.3 billion settlement there’s been a heightened level of sensitivity,” Style said. “GM is just the latest (example) of that.”