Closed Borders and Exclusionary Zoning Closed Borders and Exclusionary Zoning The case for open borders and a variety of other domestic policies is premised on placing higher moral weight on the wellbeing of Americans (or the citizens/residents of whatever country you’re discussing) than other people. And while it as old point to argue that it’s hard to justify caring more about Americans than non-Americans from a utilitarian perspective, I think a better counterargument is to point out all the policies that are consistent with this. 
The most obvious example is exclusionary zoning. If it’s morally acceptable to place more value on your fellow residents, then surely it is acceptable to place more value on your neighbors. Keeping immigrants out of the country because you want to help boost wages of your fellow Americans is very similar to keeping low-income people out of your neighborhood to boost housing values of your neighbors. In both cases you’re preventing free movement because you weigh the value of those you have more affinity with over the welfare of others. Why is one more acceptable than the other? Can you oppose open borders and really criticize those who oppose affordable housing?
	
								 
Another example is simply favoring policies that benefit people in your economic class. Say you are a rich person who is friends with only rich people. Should we expect people to place a higher value on the welfare of other Americans who are strangers but not on the welfare of your friends who share the same economic class? In this case you can defend highly regressive tax policies on the basis that they favor people you know. 
In fact, I think in both cases this is exactly how the average person’s welfare calculus works. A policy would benefit people I don’t know and hurt people I do know, so I oppose it. My suggestion is that people who believe themselves to have more sophisticated and moral values than this should ask themselves whether they have more in common than they think with the rich who want to help their rich friends and exclusionary housing fans.
								
									 
I happen to have my own qualms with open borders, but I nevertheless think it’s important to question whether placing more utilitarian value on the welfare of strangers versus people we know is coherent and useful. I would suggest this kind of thinking is why we have a lot of suboptimal policies we do have.  
 
 
  
  Logo of the United States Border Patrol. (Photo credit: Wikipedia)