Podcast tips for small business owners Podcast tips for small business owners Q: Hi Steve – I really enjoy your podcast and was thinking that it might be a good branding idea for me as well. I own a beauty salon and would love to share tips and advice. How much does it cost and how hard is it to start? --LeslyeA: First, thank you, and yes, for the past few years, I have been doing a popular podcast that we call Small Business Success with Steve Strauss. In it, I interview entrepreneurs, bloggers, authors and business leaders. We also have a fun segment called "Startup Stories," where I tell little-known tales of how some now well-known business started out very small but figured out how to grow big (this week, someone who started an empire . . . with his Social Security check!) It is, I hope, a fun and entertaining 25-minute show (just long enough for a drive or quick workout.)What I have learned along the way is that a podcast can be an affordable, powerful way to grow a business and a brand, and it is really something anyone can do. Sure, it takes time, and yes, there is a learning curve, but as I tell my daughters, "most things are hard before they are easy." Even if you don't have experience behind a microphone, there are still many benefits to be derived from hosting your own podcast:• It establishes you as a "thought leader:" This is especially important for professionals and people in the service industry. What sets you apart, why should someone hire you? Well, if you have your own podcast, you must know something extra, right? Right!  Hosting your own show makes you an expert.• You will make great contacts: People you don't yet know will want to be on your show. You will meet industry professionals and definitely expand your base.• You can promote your business partners: I have a great sponsor for my show, but whether you do or don't get one, you can use the show as a way to promote your valuable teammates.• It grows your brand: This is maybe my favorite reason (aside from the fact, of course, that podcasting is fun and interesting). By creating your own show, you will be exposing your business to tons of new people.• It can get you more business: Who wouldn't want to do business with someone who has their own show, who is seen an industry leader?Let's say that you own a beauty salon and that you also sell beauty supplies online. Do you see how having a "Beauty Talk" show could really help your brand and business? Not only would locals learn about your business, but before long, you would be getting new customers for your e-store, and soon you would be known as a leader in the beauty industry. Sweet!Here are a few tips to help you get started:1. Do your homework. If you listen to podcasts now, what is it you like about your favorites? How long are they, what do they do right (and wrong)? Really break down and analyze the shows you enjoy. You can then use those as a template for your own show. What will be your regular segments? What will you name your show?2. Figure out how to get it produced: There basically are two ways to get your show produced and on the air:First, you can do it yourself using BlogTalkRadio and that works well for thousands of podcasters.Personally, I like having someone do all of the technical stuff for me as that is, let's just say, not my forté. So I found Greg, my fantastic engineer/producer. He has a nice little studio, where we tape the show and do the interviews, and then he cleans it up and uploads it to iTunes, Stitcher and my website.3. Line up guests: Depending upon the format of your show, of course, guests can really liven up a podcast and make it pop. For starters, a conversation usually is far more interesting than a monologue, and second, your guests will want to get the show heard, so they will help promote it when their episodes air.Were do you find guests? Start with your own network and expand out. I have also found that by posting a query on HARO, you can find qualified guests.4. Be yourself, but practice: As we are told with everything, you have to be yourself, and that is especially true in your podcast. But, that said, be sure also to learn your new craft. Hosting a show is like any new skill, practice makes (almost) perfect.Today's tip: According to the uSell.com iPhone Most Wanted Survey (a survey of 1,000 U.S. smartphone users), the top 5 most wanted new iPhone 6 features are:1.  New 'Sapphire Screen' that is hard to scratch and crack (45.5%)2.  Infrared camera to see in the dark (19.2%)3.  New tools to monitor health and fitness (10.7%)4.  Ability to show 3D images (9.5%)5.  New tools to control home appliances (7.7%)