How To Tell If A Car Needs Recall Work -- You Could Look It Up How To Tell If A Car Needs Recall Work -- You Could Look It Up Worried whether your car or truck is subject to a recall — or if a used car or truck you’re considering buying got the recall work done it was supposed to get? 
You could look it up, and it’s free.
	
								 
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration recently unveiled a new “Vehicle Identification Number look-up tool” that tells you whether that particular vehicle is subject to a recall, and if it is, whether the work got done. 
The search tool is at www.safercar.gov/vinlookup. According to NHTSA, it only covers recalls that occurred in the last 15 years; it might not include some small-volume, exotic luxury-car manufacturers; and it might not include some recalls that were very recently announced.
								
										 
The VIN, or Vehicle Identification Number, is the long string of numbers on the dashboard on the driver’s side of the vehicle. It’s also on the driver’s side door post, where the door latches. 
Besides helping consumers find out whether a car has an unremedied recall, dealerships can also use the tool to determine whether used vehicles in inventory are under recall, according to the National Automobile Dealers Association. 
“To improve vehicle safety, NADA urges every car owner who receives a recall notice from a manufacturer to visit his or her local new-car dealership to have the vehicle inspected, and if necessary, fixed at no charge,” said Forrest McConnell, NADA chairman and a Honda and Acura dealer in Montgomery, Ala. 
 
There’s controversy in some states whether dealerships should be allowed to sell used cars that are subject to recall without performing the recall work and without notifying customers that the work hasn’t been done. 
Consumers for Auto Reliability and Safety, a consumer advocacy group in Sacramento, Calif.,&nbsp;is petitioning regulators like the Federal Trade Commission to prohibit retailers from selling used cars without performing recall-related work. 
The New York City Department of Consumer Affairs announced earlier this summer it would enforce a city statute the city interprets as a ban on selling used cars that are subject to a recall without performing the recall work. 
According to the city, federal law prohibits the sale of new cars with recalled parts, but that doesn’t apply to used vehicles. New York City law does require dealers to certify that their vehicles are “roadworthy.” The Consumer Affairs Department interprets that to mean cars with recalled parts that are unrepaired may not be deemed “roadworthy.” 
In a written statement, NADA’s McConnell said that historically, less than 70 percent of all recalled vehicles get fixed. He said, “Our goal is to see 100 percent of those vehicles remedied.” 
–30—