Anand Lal Shimpi Announces Retirement, Departs AnandTech Anand Lal Shimpi Announces Retirement, Departs AnandTech This post isn’t about a particular piece of technology, but in the technology publishing scene, this news is just as relevant as Intel releasing a new processor architecture or NVIDIA launching a brand new GPU. One of the titans of the technology press industry has announced his prompt retirement, at the ripe old age of 32. Anand Lal Shimpi, the founder and namesake of the popular site AnandTech, just published an article entitled “The Road Ahead”, in which he explains his decision to retire and his departure from the site. “After 17.5 years of digging, testing, analyzing and writing about the most interesting stuff in tech, it’s time for a change. This will be the last thing I write on AnandTech as I am officially retiring from the tech publishing world”, Anand said. 
Anand didn’t give a particular reason for his retirement other than to say he wanted a change, but he did reassure his readers that it is not for health reasons or because of problems with the publication. “It’s important for me to stress two things: this isn’t a transition because of health or business issues. I am healthy and hope to be even more so now that I won’t be flying nearly 130,000 miles every year. The website and business are both extremely strong”, Anand goes on to say, “We’ve expanded our staff this year to include a number of new faces contributing to both mobile and more traditional PC categories. Traffic is solid, we are looking forward to a bunch of very exciting launches especially in the final quarters of 2014.” Indeed, there will be lots to talk about in the coming weeks and months as virtually every major player from Intel to Samsung and AMD and NVIDIA ready new products, most of which I can’t talk about yet. September is usually a very busy month for people in my line of work—whatever Anand’s reason is, his timing appears to be spot on.
	
								 
 
In all serious though, the tech press will not be the same with Anand gone.&nbsp; As a 15+ year veteran of the industry, I’ve spent many a briefing and tech summit sitting alongside Anand (we also share a birthday), and he was as personable and humorous in person as he was fierce and technical in his writings. The depth of Anand’s knowledge of technology and the seriousness of which he approached virtually every subject was a rare thing to see.
								
									 
Anand’s contributions to the technology publishing industry are numerous and far reaching. Not only did his ability to start such a respected publication as a teenager inspire a myriad of others to try and do the same, but rivalries and competitiveness with other industry stalwarts advanced the depth and quality of tech coverage across the internet. Speaking from personal experience, I know I have been inspired to up the quality of my work in part because of Anand. 
The article concludes with, “As for me, I won’t stay idle forever. There are a bunch of challenges out there” and “Thanks for the memories and the support. I really do owe you all a tremendous debt of gratitude. I hope that my work and the work that continues at AnandTech will serve as a token of my appreciation”. Your work was definitely appreciated, Anand.&nbsp; I hope we cross paths again soon.