Avoid These Common Mistakes Made with Student Loan Refund Checks Avoid These Common Mistakes Made with Student Loan Refund Checks The universal regret most college graduates with federal student loan debt have is how they spent their student loan refund checks. Student loan refund checks are issued to the student from the remaining amount of a federal student loan after all university costs are paid, generally close to the beginning of each semester. For all students, the amount debited from student accounts includes tuition and fees after scholarships are accounted for and for students living on campus university expenses also include any dorm and meal plan costs. Sometimes the refund checks are thousands of dollars that students might feel is theirs to spend as they please. Problem? The debt is part of their student loan tab and will come due when they have to start repaying their student loans. 
Here are 3 mistakes students should avoid:
	
								 
1.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; Treating the refund check like it’s free money. 
Get in the mindset that this is a loan instead of free money. The best way to do this is to sit down with a financial aid officer and discuss future student loan payments for the amount you borrowed so far and compare it a post graduation salary.
								
										 
What happens otherwise? 
In a usnews.com story, a student tells tales of her student loan refund check spending.  

 “Many current and former college students can tell tales of friends who used excess student loan funds to purchase cars, party or go on spring break trips. 
 Christina Meehan splurged on a trip to Italy when she received one of her student loan refunds.
										
										 
 “I always took out way more than I needed,” Meehan said in an email. “I thought if it as ‘free money’ that I would eventually have to pay back when I was living like Carrie from Sex and the City.”
 
2. &nbsp;Not budgeting from the start 
Student loan refund checks are supposed to be for basic college expenses such as textbooks. At the beginning of the semester, students should develop a budget. There are plenty of people on campus who can help students think about needs versus wants within their budget. Some colleges have peer counselors for budgeting in a student money management office. Others, will help students in the financial aid office. Credit unions on campus are also a great place to get help. 
Always look for ways to save money. Talk to older students about how they budget for eating out and school activities. Someone in the student government office or in the department office where the student’s major is located should be happy to help. Giving up the costs of driving if living on campus is also a way to cut back on expenses. Textbook expenses are highly negotiable. For tips on saving money on textbooks, checkout 5 steps for Saving Money on Textbooks. 
3. Skipping part-time work because the student loan refund check covers expenses 
The main goal of college is for students to become employable post-graduation. Even if a student had no need for the money, a near impossibility, having some work experience is a big part of the employability equation. The best place to start looking is nearly always the on campus career services office. Career services counselors can help a student make sure the jobs they can take on will help them towards their post graduation careers. The other bonus to part-time work is college should also be a fun experience. If working part-time, set aside part of the money earned for trips home, going out with friends or new electronics. 
The downside of part-time work should never be lower grades. Before taking on a part-time job, students should talk to their professors about how much time is expected to be spent studying and working on projects outside of class. Then students can work out how much of their time budget is available each semester. 
And what do students do with the money left over from their student loan refund check if they end up not using part of it? Save it and then borrow less the following year. One year’s student loan refund check leftovers can also serve as a student’s emergency account in case of unexpected expenses. What way the money is spent or saved, the main goal is that students are aware that this money will have to paid back with interest.