Is BP Too Big To Punish? Is BP Too Big To Punish? Yes. But maybe not for much longer. Last year, a federal judge approved a criminal settlement between BP and the U.S. Department of Justice under which the oil giant pleaded guilty to manslaughter and other criminal charges. They agreed to pay over $4 billion in fines for the 2010 Deepwater Horizon disaster. The blowout of BP’s Macondo Well killed eleven people and created one of the worst environmental catastrophes in the world (CBS News). 
Attorney General Eric Holder and Lead Prosecutor Lanny Breuer could be forgiven for being happy with the largest settlement of its type in history. But more telling is the fact that investors really, really liked this deal. &nbsp;That’s because a mere $4 billion is a drop in the bucket to companies with annual revenues of a quarter trillion dollars.
	
								 
 
Now that corporations are people, think of it this way – BP is a department store IT technician named Bobby Pete. Bobby Pete has an annual income of $50,000 and manages to save $5,000 a year after all the bills are paid.
								
										 
One day, Bobby tries to save the department store ten cents on a plug, but it sets the store on fire. Eleven people are killed. Bobby is fined $900. The local prosecutor is ecstatic because the biggest fine he ever got before was 250 bucks. Afterwards, the local bank decides to loan Bobby $5,000 more on his house. 
I should mention that Bobby can pay this whopping $900 in many installments over the next five years, or about $15 a month. So each month, Bobby will have to forego a single pizza run for the family. 
I’m not sure this fine will be felt by BP in the same tone it was given by the Department of Justice. 
In fact, the markets liked this deal so much that the fine ended up being a financial boon to BP. After the court ratified the deal (NOLA Times Picayune), BP’s share price jumped to $45. Their gross revenue increased from $192 billion in 2010 to $242 billion in 2013. The disaster didn’t even lose them revenue (BP Financials).
										
										 
In other words, Bobby’s community gave him a $1,000 to help with his hardship, and he got a raise. 
The real threat of punishment is not any fine, but something else altogether – debarment. Debarment from those lucrative government contracts (Too Big to Obey: Why BP Should Be Debarred). 
The U.S. EPA slapped a temporary Debarment Order on BP in January of last year, barring them from bidding on any U.S. government contracts. The Order was based on the plea bargain and settlement that included eleven felony counts of manslaughter, one count of felony obstruction and various misdemeanor charges under the Clean Air and Clean Water Acts, among other statutes. These provided the legal underpinnings of this Order. 
In particular, the debarment prevents BP from getting any Outer Continental Shelf drilling leases (Platts), potentially very punishing. 
Debarments are based on whether a company is presently acting irresponsibly and are supposed to be in effect until the company demonstrates that it has changed its ways. Unfortunately, these BP temporary debarment proceedings began more than two years after the disaster, two years during which BP was accepting contracts from the U.S. government, with no apparent problems. And since then, BP has had many contracts from our government. 
In fact, BP is the number one fuel supplier to the Pentagon, far larger than it’s number two supplier, something no one could have foreseen when BP was spun off under Margaret Thatcher’s 1979 privatization initiatives. At least all Pentagon-BP actions are now being coordinated through the EPA (Bloomberg). 
But it will be difficult to keep any debarment in place by arguing BP has been irresponsible during the time since the disaster. And the Order will only be effective if it lasts long enough to take a real bite out of BP’s profits (BP.com). &nbsp;The five-year criminal probation period agreed to by BP last year might be an obvious candidate for this debarment period. Five years of no new U.S. contracts could make a painful cut into their profits. 
Of course, BP is suing to stop this debarment, and the legal wrangling will continue for some time given the amounts of money involved. EPA has been given a lot of grief about even attempting to debar BP (EPA Given Grief), being accused of using it to leverage political power, of exceeding its authority, and of being uncharacteristically punitive in this case. 
  Which raises the question as to why the company wasn’t debarred in 2010. A question that disappears when one understands that only small contractors get suspended or debarred. Large companies almost never get debarred, no matter how egregious the behavior (Government Accountability Office). &nbsp;I guess you can be too big to debar. BP might actually use this norm or precedent, to succeed in their defense. 
Over the past five years, BP has invested more than $52 billion in the United States – more than any other oil and gas company, and more than it invests in any other country where it operates. The company directly employs 23,000 Americans and supports nearly a quarter of a million American jobs. 
Contrary to the person SCOTUS says BP is now, actual humans will be prosecuted for manslaughter – two top supervisors on duty at the rig when it exploded (Center for Progressive Reform). So real people can be held responsible. 
Civil penalties for BP may top $50 billion. But paying it out over years, while continuing to make huge profits, would still be business as usual. 
In other words, Bobby Pete might get served with civil penalties of $10,000 but will be able to pay it out over a few years from his $5,000/year rainy-day fund, all while the community is giving him another $1,000 a year. Still no hurt. 
Without teeth and without pain, regulations will never bring about significant changes in this industry. Do we, as a nation, have to accept human deaths and the destruction of our oceans as just the cost of doing business? 
Follow Jim on https://twitter.com/JimConca and see his and Dr. Wright’s book at http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1419675885/sr=1-10/qid=1195953013/