Pippa Middleton's Favorite Shoe Designer Lists Her 8 Go-To London Spots Pippa Middleton's Favorite Shoe Designer Lists Her 8 Go-To London Spots Jemima Vine flats are quickly becoming a staple in the wardrobe of stylists, bloggers and the well-heeled set in London. And although Pippa Middleton may have been spotted tooling around town in three different versions of her Jemima Vine Edie slippers, Jemima Vine designer Jennifer Markham originally conceived her shoe line for businesswomen like herself who craved a comfortable, but stylish alternative to heels. 
How did Jemima Vine come about? 
	
								 
 
 “I’m originally from Melbourne, Australia and moved to London in my early 20s – a typical rite of passage for Australians. &nbsp;It was an&nbsp;incredibly exciting time to move here, with London and its financial markets in the midst of a boom. &nbsp;I worked in the City in equity sales and investment roles for about seven years, but I always hoped that I would be able to tie my interests in fashion and business together and run my own company.&nbsp; As I was often running to meetings and through airports in stilettos, I recognised that I needed a more comfortable alternative that wouldn’t sacrifice on style.&nbsp; I also realised that I was increasingly buying clothing that I could style to wear for both work and weekends.&nbsp; This gave me the idea to develop a range of chic, but highly versatile footwear. &nbsp;It’s important for the shoes to catch your eye first and then it’s a wonderful to realise&nbsp;how&nbsp;comfortable they are when you running around.” 
 

								
										 
 
How did you make the transition from working in finance to designing shoes? How did you go about learning the trade? “As I didn’t have a technical understanding of shoes, I found a good designer who helped me put my&nbsp;ideas into factory ready specifications. On my first visit to a Spanish factory, I was struck by how much of the manufacturing process is still by hand. Each shoe is carefully crafted around a last (mold). &nbsp;It is special to be able to meet all the individuals who are involved in the&nbsp;manufacturing process and to get to know the family who&nbsp;owns the factory. (A lot of tapas and long siesta inducing lunches involved). I think that it is increasingly becoming of importance for my&nbsp;customers to understand the provenance of what they are buying and that everyone involved in the process is being rewarded sustainably.” 
 
Since Jennifer’s sleek flats have injected a little more glamour into the workplace, we asked her for the most stylish spots every businesswoman in London should know.
										
										 
 
Best spot for a breakfast meeting: “The Riding House Cafe on Great Titchfield Street. An eccentric English feel with its tiled bar, parquet floors and cosy mismatched furniture. The juices are delicious.” 
 
Best spot for a power lunch: “Sake No Hana on St James for sashimi with its dramatic interior . On the same block, The Wolesley remains a favourite with its classic food, high ceilings and bustling atmosphere.” 
 
Best shop for stylish workwear: “The Fold London is a best kept secret – so many indispensable and clever pieces. Their showroom is located beneath the Easton Regal salon in the heart of Clerkenwell, so you can even pop in for a visit whilst you’re having your highlights done!” 
 
Best salon for a quick blowdry: “Gina Conway Aveda Salon in Westbourne Grove, Notting Hill. The salon has a wonderfully calming atmosphere and staff who really take the care to listen to what you want, every time.” 
  

 
Best happy hour spot: “I like to go east in the evenings – Sager &amp; Wilde wine bar in Hackney or Shoreditch House with its amazing rooftop.” 
 
 
  
  Peace Pagoda, Battersea Park, London, UK (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
  
 
Favorite gym or workout to decompress: “In London, we’re blessed with so many beautiful green spaces. I walk along the river through Battersea Park every morning to clear my head and focus on the day ahead.” 
More Picks from London Insiders The 5 Best Rum Bars in London 13 London Fitness Hot Spots The 5 Best Places to Savor the Last of London Summer  
Want more? Follow me on Forbes&nbsp;and&nbsp;Twitter. 