Where The Best Job Opportunities Are Now Where The Best Job Opportunities Are Now Looking to make a big career move? Your hottest opportunity might be on Main Street or in an office park near your community. 
Small and midsize firms are finally hiring again, according to recent research.
	
								 
The growth among these job creators is good news for people who are in between jobs or tired of what they’re doing and looking to make a move. 
Even with joblessness down to 6.2%, &nbsp;9.7 million Americans are unemployed, including 3.2 million among the long-term unemployed. And there are legions of part-time workers who would rather have full-time, permanent jobs–7.5 million, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS).
								
										 
The best place to turn now if you’re facing these challenge may be the small and midsize businesses in your own community or one nearby. 
From &nbsp;mid-2009 to mid-2013, small firms accounted for 60 percent of the&nbsp;net new jobs, according to the U.S. Small&nbsp;Business&nbsp;Administration’s Office of Advocacy. The true job creation stars among these firms had from 20 to 499 employees. That’s the size range where many fast-growing tech firms fit. And it’s also where you’ll find well-established professional services and manufacturing firms that are back on track after the recession. 
These firms are getting aggressive about hiring. 
* In a recent&nbsp;American Express&nbsp;survey, 81% of medium-sized firms said they plan to make an investment in human capital and hire staff over the&nbsp;next&nbsp;six months.
										
										 
Why? One reason seems to be that money is flowing to them again. Among respondents,&nbsp;70% of medium-sized firms said their revenues were higher than a year ago, and 91% said they are confident they can find the capital they need to grow. 
That survey found that the single most important priority for nearly half of U.S. business owners (47%) over the&nbsp;next&nbsp;six months is growing their business. 
* Meanwhile, a Capital One survey found that 30% of small-business owners plan to hire new employees in the next six months; 45% of those owned by millennials do. 
* And a National Small Business Association survey similarly&nbsp;found that 33% of small business owners expect to hire in the next six months, up from 30% six months ago. This is the highest percentage in six years. 
Many people tend to turn to the largest companies and organizations first when looking for jobs, but that doesn’t seem to be where the real action is right now. The Manpower Employment Outlook Survey of 18,000 public and private employers in the U.S., found that just 23% of U.S. employers planned to hire in the third quarter–lower than the recent surveys for small and midsize firms. And 71% plan to make no changes in staffing levels. This long-running survey is designed to be representative of the overall national economy. 
Many recent grads want to work in well-known firms like &nbsp;Google, Walt Disney, Apple and Ernst &amp; Young, but these sought-after companies don’t do unlimited hiring. The&nbsp;224 companies on the&nbsp;Forbes&nbsp;list of the largest private-company employers provided jobs for 4.5 million people.&nbsp;The total number of employed civilians&nbsp;consists of nearly 146.4 million workers, according to the BLS, so clearly many private sector workers are employed elsewhere. 
Meanwhile, government jobs are not easy to come by. The number of&nbsp;federal employees&nbsp;had declined to 4,312,000 in 2012, the &nbsp;most recent year for which I could find statistics, down from 5,354,000 in 1962. 
There are some downsides to working for smaller firms. For one thing, the new jobs are dependent on the access to growth capital these companies have–and that can become shaky when the economy slows. Plus, bigger firms and government often pay more and serve up better benefits than small and midsize companies. But cutbacks since the recession mean that the Goliaths’ competitive advantages may not be as great as they once were. And if you’re bent on putting your career in high gear this year, giving small and midsize firms a chance could open some great new options you never expected. 
  &nbsp; 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp;