Rosneft Has Enough Capital To Finance Projects, But Sanctions Sticky Rosneft Has Enough Capital To Finance Projects, But Sanctions Sticky Russian energy giant, Rosneft, has enough capital available to finance its planned oil projects, but sanctions are definitely a problem, the company CEO told Spiegel magazine this weekend. 
CEO Igor Sechin, known by the locals as Darth Vader, said shareholders are getting worried about the sanctions levied on the oil firm by Western governments. The European Union recently banned any financing of Russian oil and gas projects in the Crimean peninsula. Once owned by Ukraine, Russia annexed the Black Sea land mass on March 17 following a vote by Crimeans to secede.
	
								 
“Rosneft is an international public company: we have shareholders from the United States, Europe and Asia. BP is the largest of them, after Russia, it owns nearly 20 percent of our shares. Therefore, the sanctions are directed against them as well,” Sechin said. 
Rosneft shares are down 10.15% year-to-date.
								
										 
Sechin told the German magazine that Rosneft also has financing for investment projects, thanks to India and China’s decision to further increase the purchases of oil. 
“They [the Western countries] want to isolate Russia, but it’s impossible,” Lord Vader&nbsp;said. In a slight to his German audience, Sechin said the sanctions — while not great for Rosneft, were even worse for German exporters of equipment used in oil and gas drilling. The E.U. banned sale of that equipment to Russia in July. 
For his part, Sechin wet upmarket into the drilling rig space. “If the Germans do not want to supply them to Russia, we can buy such rigs in South Korea or China,” he said. 
In a jab to the Western sanctioners, Sechin took the time to brag about Rosneft’s bottom line. Net income will end the year at around $13.5 billion.
										
										 
Washington and Brussels sanctioned the Russian economy three times since the annexation of Crimea in March. Russia and Ukraine have been locked in a political boxing match since late last year. Pro-Russia separatists in eastern Ukraine have taken up arms against the Ukrainian military in calls for autonomy or secession. 
&nbsp;