Honda Rekindles Performance Heritage With New Supercharger Kit For CR-Z Hybrid Honda Rekindles Performance Heritage With New Supercharger Kit For CR-Z Hybrid Honda has started offering a dealer-installed supercharger kit for its quirky CR-Z hybrid coupe that boosts output by an impressive 67 horsepower to a total of 197. That’s almost a 50 percent increase over stock horsepower. 
The kit, developed by Honda Performance Development, the Japanese automaker’s in-house tuner, includes a centrifugal supercharger, intercooler, high-flow fuel injectors, air-filter system and recalibrated electronic control unit. It is only compatible with CR-Z models equipped with a manual transmission. The suggested retail price of $5,495 excludes dealer installation.
	
								 
Third-party companies already make similarly priced supercharger kits for Hondas, but installing them voids the warranty and can sometimes cause issues with emissions controls and other systems. Honda’s setup maintains the balance of the CR-Z’s factory warranty and has been developed for top reliability and efficiency. 

								
										 
For example, the new electronic control unit retunes the engine to maintain its “advanced technology partial zero emissions vehicle” rating with the California Air Resources Board, even with the supercharger installed. The catch is that it requires high-grade fuel (91 octane) to achieve it. 
Most CR-Z owners interested in the supercharger kit likely won’t care so much about emissions, though. This upgrade is all about speed. Honda did not release acceleration times, but the supercharger kit should significantly reduce the standard CR-Z’s 0-to-60 time of 9.5 seconds. 
The regular CR-Z has a four-cylinder gasoline engine and an electric motor that together produce 130 horsepower. Honda Performance Development offers other upgrades for the CR-Z, including a limited-slip differential, and beefed-up clutch, exhaust, brakes and suspension components. 
Though offering high-performance parts on a hybrid vehicle like the CR-Z might seem incongruous, they actually turn the car into more of what the company originally intended it to be: a small, nimble, fun machine that is as fast as it is efficient.
										
										 
Unlike its forebear, the Honda Civic-based CR-X, which sparked a cult following before it ceased production after 1991, the CR-Z failed to ignite enthusiasm when it launched in 2010. It just wasn’t fast or sporty enough, according to critics, who felt it shared more in common with the company’s lethargic Insight hybrid than it did the genuinely enjoyable Civic Si. 
Looking at the company’s mild-mannered lineup today, it might be hard to imagine a time when Honda was performance tuner king, with models like the Civic and Prelude hallowed among hot-rodders of the 1990s and early 2000s. But the company’s steadily sobered its engineering approach, dulling its edged over the years with products designed purely for basic transportation. 
This new push from Honda Performance Development harkens back to Honda’s glory days and hopefully is only the beginning of a larger move within the company to return to its sporty root. 
Read more: 
Nissan Says BladeGlider and IDx Could Be The Future of Sports Cars 
&nbsp; 
Follow me&nbsp;on Forbes&nbsp;and&nbsp;on Twitter (@matthewdepaula).