Though Pricer Than Some EVs, Volkswagen e-Golf Looks To Be A Decent Value Though Pricer Than Some EVs, Volkswagen e-Golf Looks To Be A Decent Value The 2015 e-Golf, Volkswagen’s first electric vehicle to be sold in the United States, is far from the most affordable electric vehicle on the market, but as is often the case, you get what you pay for. This new plug-in electric vehicle feels more upscale and has better driving dynamics than some of its lower-priced competitors. 
With a starting price of $36,265, including a mandatory delivery charge, the new plug-in hatchback costs almost exactly as much as the 2014 Ford Focus Electric, but more than $5,000 more than a Nissan Leaf. Both models are among its closest competitors in terms of size and performance.
	
								 
The Chevrolet Spark EV, Mitsubishi i-Miev and Smart EV all cost far less, but they are much smaller and not as well appointed as the Volkswagen e-Golf. 

								
										 
Though the e-Golf’s price can seem stratospheric compared to that of the base 2015 Volkswagen Golf, which starts at just under $19,000, that isn’t a fair comparison. The e-Golf is a top SEL trim level with pricey features like power seats and a navigation system. When compared to a regular four-door Golf SEL, the e-Golf costs about $8,400 more. That’s still a hefty premium, yet much less so than when comparing it to the base Golf. Most of it is due to the expensive lithium-ion battery system, but there are other extras, such as LED headlights and special wheels. 
All versions of the Golf, including the electric plug-in, is all-new for 2015. After test driving just about every model except the sporty GTD diesel, which VW is still debating whether to sell in the United States, it’s clear that the new Golf is one of the best compact cars on the market. It feels as quiet and solid as a luxury car when driving down the road, and it has the sort of superior driving dynamics German automakers are known for. 
A brief stint in the e-Golf left quite an impression as the car silently catapulted off the line after flooring the accelerator. It felt faster, sportier and more upscale than the Nissan Leaf—as well it should for its $5,000 premium. (I have yet to test drive the Focus Electric, so can’t say how it compares. But when looking at the regular Focus, which I have driven, the Golf again feels more upscale.) 
Volkswagen says the e-Golf will drive about 70 to 90 miles on a single charge, depending on road conditions, driving style and how the battery is charged. That’s about what a Ford Focus Electric and Nissan Leaf will do.
										
										 
Other notable features of the 2015 Volkswagen e-Golf include a standard 7.2-kilowatt onboard charger and a socket that works on both 120- and 240-volt power outlets. It also has rapid-charge capability, which allows the battery to charged 80 percent in 30 minutes. 
The 2015 Volkswagen e-Golf goes on sale in November. 
&nbsp; 
Read more:  
Diesel Fans, Take Heart: The Volkswagen Golf GTD Could Be Coming To The U.S. After&nbsp;All 
Forget Cars, Mobile Phones Rate Higher Than Personal Hygiene For&nbsp;Millennials 
&nbsp; 
Follow me&nbsp;on Forbes&nbsp;and&nbsp;on Twitter (@matthewdepaula).