Corporate Culture Building When You Can't Afford To Out-Google Google Or Out-Pixar Pixar Corporate Culture Building When You Can't Afford To Out-Google Google Or Out-Pixar Pixar Let me spend a few minutes here telling you what your corporate culture should be like, even though we haven’t had the pleasure of meeting. (This is a somewhat risky and approximate proposition; although I throw my opinions around daily as a corporate culture consultant, it’s for leaders I’ve met and companies I’ve had time to get to know.) 
But let’s get on with it.&nbsp;Today, it being Labor Day, I’ll focus my unsolicited cultural opinions the most important part of the organization: your employees.
	
								 
Quick question: Who knows best&nbsp;what customers want? Upper management or the people who face customers&nbsp;all day? (I don’t need to answer my own question here; it’s a no brainer,&nbsp;like asking, ‘‘Who’s more likely to know what students need: professional&nbsp;administrators or the teachers on the front lines?’’) 
With that answer in mind, how&nbsp;should you treat your employees? The way you’d want to be treated in their position.
								
										 
This makes it pretty simple. It also is a relief in its simplicity, in what it lets you know that company culture&nbsp;isn’t about: 
Don’t get disheartened that the physical&nbsp;environment you can afford to provide for them compares negatively&nbsp;to Pixar’s offices, so dauntingly perfect that a writer who gets&nbsp;frustrated and throws his Coke against the pristine wall would, it would seem, set the place crumbling, as Anthony Lane so aptly put it.  
 
 
  
  Google Campus
  
 Or that you’re unable to offer, like&nbsp;Google, ‘‘20 percent time’’ to engineers so they can work on projects&nbsp;of their own choosing one-fifth of the time, a brave and brilliant idea&nbsp;that led to Gmail and other key products, but may sound like a bankruptcy invitation for those of us less well-funded (and who isn’t less well-funded&nbsp;than&nbsp;Google?). Just start with treating your workers the way you would want to be&nbsp;treated in their situation.
										
										 
 Which means what? 
 • Without abuse or capriciousness. 
 • With respect for—seeking out of—employee ideas, observations,&nbsp;and concerns. 
 • With opportunities for growth—not as a clich&eacute; to&nbsp;put in a press release but as a bona fide way of life in your culture 
 • With attention to the moral right of employees to have input into how their jobs and workdays are designed. 
 Again, don’t look at reports on&nbsp;Google’s Googleplex and think, ‘‘I have to offer subsidized massages for&nbsp;weary employees?’’ That’s crazytalk for the average business trying to&nbsp;make payroll. Do look at Google and think, ‘‘How can I make my&nbsp;campus, like theirs, friendly to workers who have children?’’ (Because&nbsp;workers will have children.) That’s smart business and solid culture&nbsp;building. 
 Micah Solomon&nbsp;is a corporate culture consultant, keynote speaker and bestselling author.