Fall TV Preview: Broadcast Best Bets Fall TV Preview: Broadcast Best Bets The start to another season of broadcast television is nearly upon us. Even with their most successful shows, about 70% to 80% of tune-in comes after the live timeslot. As they get acquainted with the economics associated with all of that time-shifting, the broadcast nets are continuing to try to mint the next generation. Here, based on pilot buzz and conversation with insiders, is a sampling of the most promising new series on broadcast TV. 
ABC: How to Get Away With Murder (Sept. 25). Show creator/producer Shonda Rhimes has already put her stamp on ABC for years, with Grey’s Anatomy and Scandal. The latter in particular has become a social media phenomenon, generating tremendous activity on Twitter and other platforms, most of it during the linear window. Now, Rhimes will take over Thursday nights on the ABC schedule, adding this show with a delectable premise. Viola Davis plays a law school professor teaching students (perhaps with a bit too much verisimilitude?) about the parameters around murder. ABC has had challenges launching new shows, but this one seems too Shonda to fail.
	
								 
NBC: State of Affairs (Nov. 17). Katherine Heigl (Grey’s Anatomy) makes her return to series television, playing a CIA analyst advising the president, played by Alfre Woodard. Heigl’s character faces the challenge of delivering for her boss while also trying to investigate the death of her fianc&eacute; in the Middle East. The show has already endured a change of showrunners (over creative differences, natch) and it will air on NBC, not exactly a rock of stability. Even so, the early sense is that it has a shot at joining the growing number of Beltway shows mining the political system for maximum drama. 
CBS: Scorpion (Sept. 22). Although it remains the top dog in the ratings, CBS didn’t have an exemplary 2013-14 season. Some of its most-hyped new shows, from Hostages to this summer’s Extant (not to mention Season 2 of Under the Dome) underperformed. It’s not as if the Eye network desperately needs a hit, but it is fair to say they can’t keep squandering opportunities. Scorpion, a suspense drama with comedic elements, tells the reality-based yarn of a group of hackers commissioned by the government as a band of misfits that just might be the answer to terrorist threats. Katharine McPhee (Smash) and Robert Patrick (Terminator 2, The Sopranos) are perhaps the most recognizable stars, but that’s OK.
								
									 
FOX: Utopia (Sept. 7). Fox has stumbled badly in the ratings of late, so its roll of the dice with this reality show is a matter of necessity. It needs some of these Hail Mary passes to connect. Based on a successful European format, this reality show, shepherded by Voice/Big Brother guru John de Mol, brings a group of people together in a remote, rural area to have them start a society on their own. Early materials have suggested some of the same OMG factor as old-school Survivor, but with an unavoidable political dimension that could be ideally suited to our current red state/blue state culture. 
CW: Flash (Oct. 7). The CW hasn’t always been in the conversation in terms of fall’s most impactful new shows, but for months now Flash has had all the makings of the season’s new darling. Teased in the network’s existing comic-book hit, Arrow, the superhero story will enjoy the benefit of cross-promotion. But even on its own merits, all indications are that it is a story that will be well worth following. Starring Grant Gustin, the show finally brings the story to the screen after decades on the page.