Failure To Communicate: Faulty Voice Recognition No. 1 Problem Cited By Car Owners Failure To Communicate: Faulty Voice Recognition No. 1 Problem Cited By Car Owners Fussy voice recognition software has surpassed wind noise as the number one gripe of new car owners within the first 90 days of ownership, according to a new survey by J.D. Power. 
As automakers add more gadgets and gizmos to their vehicles in an effort to please customers, many of the high-tech features are doing just the opposite. Rather than delighting drivers, they are annoying them.
	
								 
In fact, audio, communication, entertainment and navigation features, which J.D. Power lumps together in its customer satisfaction studies, are the most problematic category in today’s new vehicles, the company says. 
Complaints about built-in voice recognition, which allows drivers to use verbal commands to tune the radio, make calls on mobile phones and other functions, are on the rise, up from 7.6 problems per 100 vehicles in 2013 to 8.3 this year. Issues hinge on three areas: misinterpreting or not recognizing verbal commands (cited by 63 percent of respondents who had a problem with the feature), misinterpreting or not recognizing names or words (44 percent), and misinterpreting or not recognizing numbers (31 percent).
								
										 
Poor bluetooth connectivity was the second most frequent complaint among new vehicle owners involving so-called infotainment features. Problems with the system not recognizing a mobile device (cited by 40 percent of respondents who complained about bluetooth), and the phone not automatically connecting upon the driver entering the vehicle (30 percent) were the two biggest gripes. A little more than half of respondents (52 percent) had an Apple iPhone while 41 percent used an Android device. 
Of all the infotainment features, bluetooth connectivity and controls on the steering wheel have the biggest impact on satisfaction, J.D. Power says. With 86 percent of owners saying they use bluetooth to connect a mobile device, it behooves automakers to improve its functionality so as not to alienate customers. 
J.D. Power’s 2014 Multimedia Quality and Satisfaction Study was based on responses from 86,118 new-vehicle owners surveyed between February 2014 and May 2014. 
Read more:
										
										 
Audi To Offer Apple CarPlay On Its U.S. Models Starting In 2016 
Volvo Ditches Buttons and Knobs In Favor Of Tablet-Like Touchscreen On Future Models 
Ford Will Add Adaptive Steering To Some Of Its Vehicles 
&nbsp; 
Follow me&nbsp;on Forbes&nbsp;and&nbsp;on Twitter (@matthewdepaula).