Fall TV Preview: Cable and Streaming Best Bets Fall TV Preview: Cable and Streaming Best Bets Cable and digital networks are not as much a slave to the idea of premiering shows in September, but they still offer up plenty of diversions in the fall season. Here are five of the most intriguing: 
The Chair (Starz, Sept. 6) – From the producers of the criminally under-appreciated Project Greenlight, this show ups the stakes by not only showing what goes into a directing a movie, but how different directing hopefuls would handle the same material. The newbies take responsibility for about two-thirds of a $900,000-plus budget. Chris Moore of the original Greenlight returns as a producer and on-screen presence, and he is joined by Zachary Quinto.
	
								 
Transparent (Amazon, Sept. 26) – Amazon continues its push into original content with this series from Jill Soloway, a former writer-producer for Six Feet Under and The United States of Tara. The killer cast includes Jeffrey Tambor, Judith Light, Gaby Hoffmann and Jay Duplass, with appearances by Carrie Brownstein, Bradley Whitford, Kathryn Hahn and Rob Huebel. It’s a difficult-to-summarize comedy whose title points to Tambor’s character, who is transitioning to a woman. Since Amazon will release all 10 episodes at once, it will soon be clear whether the company has its answer to Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black. 
Olive Kitteridge (HBO, Nov. 2) – This four-hour miniseries, whose producers include Tom Hanks, is an adaptation of Elizabeth Strout’s novel about the happenings in a small New England town. Frances McDormand and Richard Jenkins lead a cast including Bill Murray, John Gallagher Jr., Peter Mullan, Rosemarie DeWitt and Zoe Kazan.
								
									 
Girlfriends’ Guide to Divorce (Bravo, Dec. 2) – Long adept at minting “Bravo-lebrities” in reality series such as the Real Housewives franchise, the network is getting into the scripted game with this take on Vicki Iovine’s series about women coping with a series of mid-life changes. The cast includes Lisa Edelstein and Janeane Garofalo. 
The Affair (Showtime, Oct. 12) – Dominic West (The Wire) stars in a 10-episode drama about the effects of an extramarital affair from both male and female perspectives. Ruth Wilson, Maura Tierney and Joshua Jackson also star. 
&nbsp;