10 Subtle But Important Improvements to the 2015 Ford F-150 10 Subtle But Important Improvements to the 2015 Ford F-150 The 2015 Ford F-150’s headline-grabbing lightweight aluminum body is a key selling point for the all-new full-size pickup, but Ford is counting on subtler details to make an impact on buyers as well. 
With many automakers achieving parity with one another in terms of efficiency, safety and reliability, the getting the little things just right is crucial. Making sure the door sill high and wide enough for the driver to comfortably rest an arm, for example, might not seem like much, but in fact it can be a big deal, particularly with full-size pickup trucks, whose owners spend many ours inside them for both work and personal use.
	
								 
Full-size trucks comprise one of the largest and most profitable markets in the United States, which Ford has dominated for years with its F-150. Messing up even the tiniest detail could give ground to Chrysler and General Motors, which have recently improved their own full-size pickups. 

								
										 
Though Ford made a huge splash with the F-150’s controversial new aluminum body, which cuts as much as 700 pounds from the vehicle’s overall weight, and is playing up a new EcoBoost engine as both more powerful and more efficient than its predecessor, the company is starting to tout creature comforts as a selling point too. 
“If I do my job, the customer simply intuits that things are right—both inside and outside of his truck—without even having to think about it,” said Cary Diehl, Ford human factors engineer in a press release detailing 10 features the company focused on to improve interior comfort and utility. 
The location and shape of the door handle, clustering buttons on the steering, and the even the shape of the steering wheel itself are all examples of minutiae Ford engineers labored over to ensure customers would feel at ease inside the new pickup. Here are 10 features on the 2015 Ford F-150 designed to increase comfort and convenience that you might not otherwise notice. 
Large Folding Step
										
										 
 
Ford not only added a folding step to allow access to the cargo bed from the side, it made the step large enough to fit a full-size work boot. It also slides under the vehicle when not in use. 
One-Handed Tailgate Operation 
 
The tailgate of the 2015 Ford F-150 can be operated with one hand, not only because of the way the hinge mechanism works to keep it from slamming down, but also because of grooves in the handle that increase grip. So there’s no need to put down whatever you might want to toss into the cargo bed before opening the tailgate. 
Keypad With Buttons 
 
Designers and the tech-focused relish the smooth, clean look of capacitive touch controls, but pickup truck owners prefer old-school buttons for the security keypad on the outside of the driver-side door, which is used to unlock the vehicle, among other things. Their tactile feedback makes the keypad easier to use when wearing gloves, and it also lets users input a security code by feel if they have trouble seeing it. 
  Added Armrest 
 
Although there is a dedicated armrest on the inside of the front doors of the 2015 F-150, Ford made the ledge at the base of the window at the beltline, the same height as the center armrest and wide enough for most people to place an arm there even with the window up. 
Sculpted Door Handle 
 
The door handle inside the 2015 Ford F-150 is positioned so that it is easy to hold onto and keep the door from flying open, should a gust of wind come along. The handle also has a sculpted finger relief for extra grip. 
Four-Spoke Steering Wheel 
 
Three spokes or four? Designers often labor over this question from aesthetic point of view. But it was clear what needed to be done on the new F-150: Use four spokes and don’t close off the bottom portion of the steering wheel between the two lower spokes as other companies sometimes do. Some owners like to place their hand at six o’clock because it lets them intuitively know when the front wheels are perfectly straight while backing up to a trailer or into a tight space. 
Finger Indents 
 
Finger indents along the back of the steering wheel used to be pretty common, but they aren’t anymore. Including them on the F-150’s wheel seems inconsequential, but Ford says the extra bit of grip they afford keeps drivers from having to clench the wheel too tightly and can help when trying to make fine adjustments when hitching or towing a trailer. 
Clustered Controls 
 
Ford found through customer surveys that F-150 owners prefer controls to be clustered together based on their function. Thus, all lighting controls are grouped on the left of the instrument panel, while towing controls are to the right. 
Customizable MyView Screen 
   
Ford included an 8-inch screen in the instrument panel behind the steering wheel to allow drivers to choose what information is displayed, depending on how they use the vehicle. Choices include trailer information, tire pressure, off-road mode or trip fuel, among others. 
Entertainment Functions Confined to Center Console 
 
No stereo or entertainment features can be displayed in the instrument panel cluster behind the steering wheel. That space is reserved for information critical to driving and the vehicle’s condition of operation. The only exception is incoming calls. “Our customers were adamant that trucks are different from cars, and vehicle information is essential,” Diehl said. “Their truck is their tool, and they need to know what it’s doing.” 
&nbsp; 
Read more: 
Aluminum Inferior To Steel? Not On The 2015 Ford&nbsp;F-150 
The Ford Mustang Convertible Gets Major Improvements for&nbsp;2015 
&nbsp; 
Follow me&nbsp;on Forbes&nbsp;and&nbsp;on Twitter (@matthewdepaula).