End of the line: UBI declares Kingfisher Airlines, Mallya as 'wilful defaulter' End of the line: UBI declares Kingfisher Airlines, Mallya as 'wilful defaulter' United Bank of India today declared Kingfisher Airlines and its promoter Vijay Mallya as 'wilful defaulter, reports said.
Mallya was declared as a wilful defaulter over Kingfisher Airlines not paying back its loans. This could also mean that the once-flamboyant  industrialist may lose his chair on the board of United Breweries and United Spirits Limited, given that the two companies are currently controlled by Diageo and Heineken.
State-owned United Bank of India (UBI) had filed a caveat in the Supreme Court against Kingfisher Airlines (KFA) shortly after the Calcutta high court division bench's judgment was delivered on Thursday.
"We filed the caveat against KFA in SC shortly after Calcutta HC delivered the judgement", executive director of UBI D Narang told PTI.
The division bench of the High Court dismissed a KFA appeal against UBI and upheld decision of single judge of not allowing the company to be represented by a lawyer. The order said that either KFA chairman Vijay Mallya could appear or send a company representative for the hearing in front of the bank's grievance redressal panel.
Earlier, UBI had identified Vijay Mallya as a wilful defaulter and asked him to appear before the bank's panel to hear him out before declaring him as a wilful defaulter. Mallya later moved the court seeking exemption of his appearance before the panel.
KFA, now grounded, had taken a loan worth of Rs 350 crore from the bank.
Several other banks like SBI and PNB were also on the trail of declaring Mallya a wilful defaulter.
Once a company or individual is declared a wilful defaulter not only will the person or entity concerned by barred from formal financial world, but it also opens the doors for investigations and legal proceedings. Banks share the name of the wilful defaulter firm/individual with a central database of the Reserve Bank of India and credit bureaus.