New team in PMO, good governance: 5 things Narendra Modi promised... New team in PMO, good governance: 5 things Narendra Modi promised... Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a five-day trip to Japan, is expected to talk business today and in a meeting with Japan's industry leaders promised a range of measures to make it attractive for them to invest in India. Here are the highlights:
New special team in PMO to fast track investments
Modi assured business delegates in Tokyo that the Indian government has decided to set up a special team under the Prime Minister's Office to facilitate Japanese investments into India.
Speaking at the summit in Tokyo, Modi promised investors that good governance and ease of business are his top priorities in order to facilitate investment into the country.
"Single window clearance is part of good governance and every initiative taken by our government in the last 100 days is already showing results.. I can promise you that in the coming days you will get the same speed and response as you have witnessed in Gujarat," Modi said today.
Will follow Japan's model of skill development
The Indian Prime Minister said the country wants to follow Japan's model of skill development and research  in order to meet the global workforce requirement by 2020.
"The 21st century will belong to Asia. The world has accepted it. The question in my mind is- How will it be? We have to provide this answer.. and India and Japan need to deepen ties in order to achieve this," said Modi.
Modi promises accountability and good governance
Modi today promised investors that since India has got a central government with a strong majority after thirty years, accountability and responsibility are also the government's top priories.
With such a policy-driven government which does not favour one corporate over the other, it will help aid business and investment in the country, he added.
Asserting that good governance is his priority, the Prime Minister said single window-clearances is a significant part of it as he realises the importance of easing business, simplifying procedures, quickening processes and using technology.
"I understand well the importance of coordination between government and industry," he said while noting that he wants to replicate the experiments he made in Gujarat at the national level.
India will prefer Japan over China
Modi underlined the need for closer and deeper cooperation between Japan and India to champion the cause of global "vikas vaad (development) instead of vistar vaad (expansionism)".
"We have to decide if we want to have 'vikas vaad' or 'vistar vaad' which leads to disintegration. Those who follow the path of Buddha and have faith on 'vikas vaad', they develop. But we see, those having ideas of the 18th century, engage in encroachments and enter seas (of others)," he said
in comments that may be seen as targeting China which is having conflict over South China Sea with some neighbouring countries
Japanese business representatives on Indian team
The Indian prime minister promised single-window clearances, speedy decision-making which is non-discriminatory in nature.
Modi said two representatives of Japanese business can be part of an Indian team which decides on business proposals. They can be permanently part of this decision making, he said.
What is Modi hoping to achieve with his Japan trip
The Japan trip is particularly crucial for the Modi government as it attempts to drum up foreign investment into India.
According to the Nikkei business daily, Japan aims to double its direct investment in India in five years from around $2 billion last year.
India and Japan are already in talks for the high speed train between Mumbai and Ahmedabad, and Japan has already invested in the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and the western freight corridor.
Agreements are also expected to be signed in defence and the two sides will discuss cooperation in infrastructure, civil nuclear energy and production of rare earth materials.
Commerce minister Nirmala Sitharaman told The Telegraph: “We are asking for greater access to their market so that Indian goods such as gems and jewellery, pharmaceuticals and textiles can be exported.”
According to the report, the Indian pharma industry, whose growth has slowed down to 1.2 percent at $14.84 billion last financial year, has been trying to prise open the tightly controlled Japanese drug market.
The two countries will also agree to jointly produce mixed rare earth, with Japan set to start importing from India in 2015 as it tries to wean itself of its reliance on China.
Indian Rare Earths, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Department of Atomic Energy, and Japanese trading house Toyota Tsusho will sign a contract on joint production as early as September, according to the Nikkei Business Daily.
Annual production will be about 2,000 tonnes to 2,300 tonnes, equal to around 15 percent of Japan's demand, and roughly 2,000 tonnes a year could be exported to Japan starting as early as February, it added.
The Indian company will make mixed rare earth materials from uranium and thorium ores, which Toyota Tsusho will use to produce neodymium for electric and hybrid cars, as well as lanthanum, cerium and praseodymium.
Modi is also likely to lobby for Abe to back a nuclear energy pact, although hopes of striking a similar accord to one reached with the United States in 2008 had faded in the run-up to the visit.
Japan wants explicit guarantees from India, which has not signed the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, to limit atomic tests and allow closer inspection of its facilities to ensure that spent fuel is not used to make bombs.
Modi will also seek to drum up the inward investment he needs to bring to life the appeal to "Come, make in India" he made in a speech this month to mark India's independence day.
Also under discussion will be a proposal to formalise a 'Two Plus Two' format for talks bringing together the foreign and defence ministers of both countries, reflecting shared concerns about an increasingly assertive China.
with inputs from agencies