Wilful defaulter tag may cost Vijay Mallya his chair on United Spirits Wilful defaulter tag may cost Vijay Mallya his chair on United Spirits United Bank of India today declared Kingfisher Airlines and its promoter Vijay Mallya as 'wilful defaulter'.
This could also mean that the once-flamboyant  industrialist may lose his chair on the board of United Breweries and United Spirits Limited.
According to a Times of India report, Mallya, who currently chairs the board of United Spirits and United Breweries, could lose his position in the event that he is declared a wilful defaulter, given that the two companies are  currently controlled by Diageo and Heineken.
Once a company or individual is declared a wilful defaulter not only will the person or entity concerned by barred from formal financial world, but it also opens the doors for investigations and legal proceedings. Banks share the name of the wilful defaulter firm/individual with a central database of the Reserve Bank of India and credit bureaus.
Under current norms, the promoters will also be prohibited from beginning a new venture for the next five years. The declaration of being a wilful defaulter could therefore affect the ability of both United Spirits and United Breweries to raise money, something Heineken and Diageo may not take kindly to, and could result in them forcing Mallya out of his chair on the board. "If Mallya is determined to continue, then the shareholders agreement and its terms would come to play," TOI reported, quoting company sources.
The board of directors of the Diageo-controlled United Spirits Limited is reportedly already examining the financial transactions with UB Holdings. Public lender IDBI had said that it is in an advanced stage in the process to declare Mallya a wilful defaulter, while State Bank of India and Punjab National Bank are also reportedly working on the process. Kolkata-based United Bank of India was the first public bank among lenders to the troubled airline to initiate the process of declaring Mallya a wilful defaulter.
As Firstbiz had explained earlier, a wilful defaulter, refers to a company or an individual who chooses not to pay back money borrowed to banks deliberately and not because they don’t’ have any.
In some cases, it is deemed to having being done with an intention to fool the banks and the financial system.
According to RBI norms, a wilful default happens when the money borrowed from a bank for a stated purpose gets diverted to other areas, funds are siphoned off or the company sells  the assets against which the loans are raised from lenders. This is a charge akin to financial fraudulence or cheating. Kingfisher Airlines has an outstanding debt of about Rs 4,022 crore to a consortium of banks, led by SBI. In the Kingfisher case, prima facie, it appears that banks have done their home work already.
A forensic audit has been conducted by a consultant and lenders have the backing of finance ministry to go ahead with the plan. Once the lenders formally make up their mind, a notice will be served to Kingfisher, prior to finally classifying the company as wilful defaulter.