Live: Japan to give $33 bn for infra push, Modi remains hopeful of... Live: Japan to give $33 bn for infra push, Modi remains hopeful of... 4:30 pm: Better India-Japan relationship can benefit the world, says Modi
The Indian Prime Minister said that better relations between the two countries would be better for the world and reiterated that the world was sure that the 20th century would belong to Asia. 
"However, what will matter are the relations between India and Japan and how they take their relations forward," Modi said.
He said that the co-operation between the two countries could benefit other countries as well and not just in Asia. 
4:15 pm: Modi thanks Abe for new investments, says Japanese PM gets his vision 
Modi thanked Abe for his hospitality and said that the Japan's friendship mattered greatly to India for the future.  
The Indian Prime Minister said the most important thing that emerged between the two nations was the special strategic and global partnership that they had agreed to forge. 
"In my view these aren't just words or a shift in category. We are very serious about this and we are confident that this new partnership will have an important role to play in the future," Modi said. 
Modi said that Abe has promised that Japan will participate in India's plan for inclusive development. 
The Indian Prime Minister welcomed the decision by the Japanese Prime Minister to invest Rs 2.10 lakh crore in the Indian economy through private and public funds for infrastructure funding. 
Modi said that the promise of investment was a sign that the Japanese prime minister understood the vision that he had for the country. He said he had been promised complete co-operation in the purification of the Ganga river by the Japanese Prime Minister. 
4:10 pm: Abe confirms doubling of investment, but no nuclear energy deal with Modi
The Japanese Prime minister said that the nation would double its investment in India over the next five years. 
The Japanese Prime Minister also reaffirmed the co-operation for the bullet train project in India.
"Over nuclear co-operation there has been progress over the last several months. I was able to have discussions with PM Modi on the issue and we were able to deepen our understanding on both sides," Abe said. 
He said that both Modi and he had asked officials to accelerate the process to enhance their partnership. 
4:00 pm: Abe says new agreement on security and defence signed with India
Calling him his "old friend", Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said that the relations between India-Japan 
"We agreed to comprehensive agreements on defence and security co-operation," Abe said.
This includes the delivery of amphibious vehicles and greater co-ordination on maritime security.
3:35 pm: Japan promises all support for bullet trains in India
Japan has also expressed readiness to provide financial, technical and operational support to introduce bullet trains in India. So it looks like the project will be on the fast track after all. 
3:25 pm: Japan agrees to give $33.58 bn over 5 years for infrastructure projects
PTI  reported that Japan has announced it will give 3.5 trillion yen (over USD 33.58 billion)
to India over five years to finance projects including infrastructure and building of smart cities. 
10:00 am: Modi promises special PMO team to boost Japanese investments in India
Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on a five-day trip to Japan, today assured business delegates in Tokyo that the Indian government has decided to set up a special team under the Prime Minister's Office to facilitate Japanese investments into India.
Speaking at a summit in Tokyo, Modi promised investors that good governance and ease of business are his top priorities in order to facilitate investment into the country.
"Single window clearance is part of good governance and every initiative taken by our government in the last 100 days is already showing results.. I can promise you that in the coming days you will get the same speed and response as you have witnessed in Gujarat," Modi said today.
He also said that India wants to follow Japan's model of skill development and research  in order to meet the global workforce requirement by 2020.
"The 21st century will belong to Asia. The world has accepted it. The question in my mind is- How will it be? We have to provide this answer.. and India and Japan need to deepen ties in order to achieve this," said Modi.
India needs faster economic growth to create work for the one million young people who enter the workforce every month.
The Modi government has already  allowed foreign investors to invest upto 100 percent in railway projects with an eye on drumming up interest in building India's answer to Japan's high-speed 'bullet' trains. He is also courting Japanese investment in an ambitious industrial "corridor" between Delhi and Mumbai.
Modi today promised investors that since India has got a central government with a majority vote after thirty years, accountability and responsibility are also the government's top priories.
With such a policy-driven government which does not favour one corporate over the other, it will help aid business and investment in the country, he added.
Japan's Honda Motor Co Ltd, Suzuki Co Ltd, Sony Corp and Toyota Motor Corp are household names in India. Yet, India accounts for only 1.2 percent of Japan’s total outward foreign direct investment.
Modi, on his first major foreign visit since a landslide election win in May, arrived on Saturday in Japan  for a five-day trip aimed at capitalising on a personal affinity with  Japan's Prime Minsiter Shinzo Abe to bolster security and business ties in the face of an assertive China.
Also under discussion will be a proposal to formalise a 'two-plus-two' format for talks bringing together the foreign and defence ministers of both countries, and the possible sale of an amphibious aircraft to the India navy.
India and Japan will also likely agree to hold regular joint training exercises in maritime defense, some of which will involve the United States as well, according to a report.
                              