Once More On Russia And Ukraine Once More On Russia And Ukraine I recently wrote an article arguing that the West should let Russia annex a sliver of Ukraine in exchange for integrating the rest of the country in NATO and, eventually, the EU. Surprisingly (cough), this proposal proved controversial. It was portrayed as a giveaway to Russia and an abandonment of Ukraine, even though it would enable the vast majority of Ukrainians to live under the protective umbrella of NATO and, ultimately, the democracy, rule of law and relative prosperity that EU membership brings. 
One point that I wanted to make in the piece and that was implicit, but that in retrospect I should have made explicit, is the following: the background assumption of policymakers and commentators in Washington seems to be that the level of power (or, rather, powerlessness) and non-assertiveness of Russia in the 1990s is its “default” mode. The assertiveness of Russia from the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact to the fall of the Berlin Wall was an anomaly caused by the Messianism of the Communist ideology. And, therefore, the ascendency of Putin and Russia’s increasing assertiveness also represents an anomaly, begging for a fix. “Normal” Russia shouldn’t mess with its neighbors, and when it does, this is something that should (and can) be overwhelmingly opposed.
	
								 
 
My contention is that a look at the broader sweep of Russian history (already when what we now know as Russia was known as the&nbsp;Kievan Rus’) will reveal that it is precisely the other way around: the Russian “normal” is asserting its influence on bordering countries, and the supineness of 1990s Russia was a historical accident precipitated by a once-in-a-century social-political trauma. To expect Russia to always behave like Yeltsin’s Russia, with Russia’s President laughing his ass off in the Rose Garden, was always a fantasy. And to try to make it so that Russia won’t assert a sphere of influence in its near abroad makes about as much sense as punching a glacier back whence it came.
								
										 
A typical response to the piece is that if we give Putin the Crimea, next he will invade the Baltics and Poland. The crucial difference, however, is that the Baltics and Poland are part of NATO. And if Stalin was deterred by NATO, I fail to see why Putin won’t be. Maybe I’m wrong–in which case, we will either have World War III or the collapse of the United States as a credible superpower and an era of chaos. But I don’t think I’m wrong, because I think Putin isn’t crazy–ballsy, but not crazy. And if Putin really wants to precipitate World War III, he will do so regardless and in that case we had better strike first with all we’ve got. But we’re not gonna do that, are we? 
In regard to this, I tweeted that the current situation is less like Germany 1938 and more like Germany 1919. Even though Munich analogies aren’t always wrong (I think they are quite apt when it comes to the Iranian situation, for example), I really do think they are wrong in this case. Domino theories are sometimes right, but they’re sometimes wrong. It is commonly agreed that the Treaty of Versailles humiliated Germany to a catastrophic extent, that was bound to create resentment and revanchism, and that the gracelessness of the victorious Allies (chief of whom France) was a signal cause of the rise of Hitler. To take another example, the story goes (it is possibly apocryphal) that in 1871 Bismarck advised against taking Alsace-Lorraine from France, because it would turn France into a revanchist enemy, and Germany couldn’t win every war. How much bloodshed would have been avoided if he had been heeded? Russia is still–feels itself in its bones–the humiliated loser of the Cold War. Great Powers are wise to be magnanimous with other Great Powers, because they never stay weak for long. At the Congress of Vienna, Metternich opted against humiliating France, even though France had been humiliating every other nation for 25 years, and in doing so built an era of peace that lasted for a century. This was the main reason why Churchill demanded Great Power status for France at Yalta, and while Roosevelt had to be dragged into it Stalin understood very well the matter. This is how statesmanship works. To expect Russia to sit on its hands while Ukraine moors itself in the Western bloc is ideologically-motivated delusion of the same order as any irredentist fantasia. 
I’ve been to Ukraine several times and I love it. I want most Ukrainians to enjoy the blessings of NATO and EU membership. But we also have to be realistic about the history of the region and the forces at play.
										
										 
Photo by Ari Helminen [CC-BY-SA-2.0], via Wikimedia Commons