How To Communicate Change: 3 Lessons From Microsoft's Recent Layoff How To Communicate Change: 3 Lessons From Microsoft's Recent Layoff Last week, Microsoft created quite the media uproar. 
If the news that 12,500 Microsoft employees worldwide would be losing their jobs wasn’t shocking enough, the way it was handled didn’t help matters.
	
								 
Microsoft’s executive vice president Stephen Elop’s announcement came in the form of a 1,100-word email chock-full of “management speak” that only mentioned the layoffs in two sentences buried deep within the text. 
There’s no doubt that laying off thousands of employees is a harrowing task for even the staunchest of managers, but the way these types of changes are communicated says a lot about an organization’s culture. That being said, there are a few things that other companies can learn from the way Microsoft handled this situation in terms of how to communicate sensitive changes.
								
										 
I asked my colleague Jenny Dervin, former vice president of corporate communications at JetBlue, to weigh in on this topic. Her nearly 20 years of experience as a corporate communications leader has required her to manage extremely sensitive messaging with internal and external stakeholders — a skill that she has made an art form. 
 
Here’s some valuable advice she has to offer:  
 
 Start immediately. Companies often keep their business strategies too close to the vest. Leaders are either preoccupied with gaining support for the new direction or they’re protecting a market position so competitors can’t “get the jump” on them.There’s no reason to keep shifting business priorities on your leadership team. Your officers and employees need to know what’s coming. A good corporate communications team will advise the right strategy (e.g., whom to tell, timing, tactics, etc.). Too often, corporate communications is forced to broadcast with little involvement or lead time and left to mop up the mess afterward.Most importantly, you should never let bad news come as a surprise. Let senior-level executives know when your profits are down. Tell your employees when they need to step up their game and — more importantly — give them a chance to improve. Remember, not all messages are created equal. Prioritize them based on their different objectives. 
 Understand that big changes are a two-sided coin. You have to rally the troops around the new vision or direction, but you also have to respect the fact that big company changes often result in confusion and personal change for employees. Clear, concise communication is far kinder than anything designed to “soften the blow.”As a former editor once told me, “Never bury the lede” (i.e., the first sentence of a news article that communicates the news quickly and entices the reader to continue reading). The best approach is to have an open, well-designed communication strategy ready to go.Try town hall-style conversations to talk about the process of making the decision, videotaped messages from leadership explaining the marketplace context and why the company is shifting priorities, or sending a well-briefed leadership team to find pockets of resistance and engage cynics in honest conversations. While a leader may have had weeks (or even months) to adjust to the new direction, his team hasn’t. Being as open and transparent as possible will help reduce the adjustment time.
										
										 
 Commit to the new direction. Sometimes, the backlash to a company decision is so severe that it weakens the decision altogether. As the strategy is being developed, having a “red team” as part of the planning group is essential.Red teams are people who intentionally have no involvement in a project until a certain point. They serve as a fresh set of eyes — helping to ensure that the solution is meeting the needs of the organization. Members can be deployed to make sure your solution will work.The team can pinpoint possible employee reactions and devise a communication plan to reduce or eliminate resistance. Once the company is committed to that direction, however, the only way to go is forward. It’s vital to have key leadership on board who can help explain what’s happening, why, and when. 
 
Big changes are disruptive to any organization, but people need to know what’s changing, why, and how it affects them. What’s more, they need the time and space to process the change, ask questions, and experience the various stages of grief or loss. 
Failing to approach change respectfully creates lasting scars in your organization that can take years to heal. Leaders who put these tips to use and couple them with a heartfelt desire to take care of their stakeholders will be left standing on much more solid ground if (and when) the time comes to deliver bad news. 
Chris&nbsp;Cancialosi, Ph.D., is managing partner and founder at&nbsp;gothamCulture.&nbsp;