When You’re Feeling Down About Your Job, You Seek Brighter Light When You’re Feeling Down About Your Job, You Seek Brighter Light In an experiment, people who felt more hopeless about the economy and their employment opportunities showed a preference for brighter lighting, suggesting that those with poor job prospects may have an unfortunate predilection for spending more on electricity, says a team led by Ping Dong of the University of Toronto. The researchers calculated that it would cost participants an average of 20.6% more for electricity in order to feel 1 point less hopeful (on a 9-point scale) toward the economy. Hopelessness can darken people’s perception of brightness, increasing their desire for more light.

	SOURCE:&nbsp;&nbsp;Ray of Hope: Hopelessness Increases Preferences for Brighter Lighting				
				
					
	
		More blog posts
	


	

	
			
	Andrew O'Connell, an editor with the Harvard Business Review Group, is the author of Stats and Curiosities from Harvard Business Review.



				
	            


	Comments
	
    
        
                    
            






	
	
	  Posting Guidelines
	  We hope the conversations that take place on HBR.org will be energetic, constructive, and thought-provoking. To ensure the quality of the discussion, our moderating team will review all comments and may edit them for clarity, length, and relevance.  Comments that are overly promotional, mean-spirited, or off-topic may be deleted per the moderators' judgment.
	
	  All postings become the property of Harvard Business School Publishing
	
 



	
		&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;
		
	

	
					In an experiment, people who felt more hopeless about the economy and their employment opportunities showed a preference for brighter lighting, suggesting that those with poor job prospects may have an unfortunate predilection for spending more on electricity, says a team led by Ping Dong of the University of Toronto. The researchers calculated that it would cost participants an average of 20.6% more for electricity in order to feel 1 point less hopeful (on a 9-point scale) toward the economy. Hopelessness can darken people’s perception of brightness, increasing their desire for more light.

	SOURCE:&nbsp;&nbsp;Ray of Hope: Hopelessness Increases Preferences for Brighter Lighting