Infra, bullet trains and defence push: Here's what Japan's PM promised Modi Infra, bullet trains and defence push: Here's what Japan's PM promised Modi Living up to the hopes and expectations of several watchers, the Japanese government today announced public-private investment of 3.5 trillion yen (Rs 2.03 trillion) in India.
In a joint press conference, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe commented on a number of issues including strategic maritime cooperation, security cooperation and taking forward nuclear talks.
"The two prime ministers ... affirmed their shared commitment to maritime security, freedom of navigation and overflight, civil aviation safety, unimpeded lawful commerce, and the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with international law," the joint statement said.
In a sign of their warm ties, the two leaders greeted each other with a hug when they met on Saturday in Japan's ancient capital of Kyoto for an informal dinner. Modi is one of the three people that Abe follows on Twitter, while the Indian leader admires Abe's brand of nationalist politics.
Here's a quick wrap-up on everything that happened since Modi began his five day official visit to Japan:
On Indo-Japanese relations:
The Indian Prime Minister said that better relations between the two countries would be better for the world and reiterated that the world was sure that the 20th century would belong to Asia.
"The 21st century belongs to Asia ... but how the 21st century will be depends on how strong and progressive India-Japan ties are," Modi said.
On Japanese investments in India: 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a special team in his office to fast-track investments from Japan.
"Two nominees selected by Japan will also be part of this decision-making team, which will evaluate the business proposals," he said.
On a civil nuclear deal: 
Modi said there had been progress on a civil nuclear deal and there had been discussions on the matter. "We have asked officials at our end to take it forward so that there can be strategic co-operation on the issue," Modi said.
The Prime Minister said he hoped that some sanctions on Indian companies would be lifted and said that the agreement on defence equipment showed that relations between the two countries had improved.
"Over nuclear co-operation there has been progress over the last several months. I was able to have discussions with PM Modi on the issue and we were able to deepen our understanding on both sides," Abe said.
On bullet trains:
Japan has also expressed readiness to provide financial, technical and operational support to introduce bullet trains in India.
On security and defence cooperation:
"We agreed to comprehensive agreements on defence and security co-operation," Abe said today. Japan said it would remove six of India's space and defence-related entities from Japan's foreign fund user list.
On maritime cooperation:
The two countries agreed to hold regular maritime drills, and that Japan would continue to participate in U.S.-India drills.
On smart cities:
A pact was signed, at the start of Modi's visit, under which his constituency Varanasi will be developed as a 'smart city', with cooperation and experience of Kyoto, the Japanese 'smart city' which is a confluence of heritage and modernity.
On cleaning Ganga: 
Modi reportedly discussed his Ganga cleaning plans with Abe. The Japanese PM has asked him to suggest ways in which Japan can help the country in the issue.
With inputs from agencies