10 Reasons Buick And GMC Are On Cruise Control Right Now 10 Reasons Buick And GMC Are On Cruise Control Right Now The feel-good automotive story of the year is emerging from the unlikeliest of brands at the unlikeliest of companies. Buick and GMC are keeping General Motors' head above water and providing the only solid performances as the company endures an annus horribilis over the recall fiasco. 
When GM reports sales this week, look for Buick and GMC to continue to lead its charts. Buick sales were up a robust 12 percent for the year through July, while GMC sales rose 8 percent for the year.&nbsp; They’re the only GM brands in the United States that are managed together.
	
								 
“We’ve got a wonderful convergence of elements right now, all working together — and hence, our sales gains,” Tony DiSalle, marketing vice president for Buick and GMC, told me. 
Meanwhile, other GM brand-management teams have been struggling. Chevrolet sales were up by only 2 percent for the year through July, which is actually pretty good considering that the Chevy brand and products have taken the brunt of blame in the 54 separate recall campaigns that have affected as many as 26 million GM vehicles this year. The biggest focus of the ugliest chapter in this saga, the ignition-switch recalls, has been&nbsp; the now-defunct Chevrolet Cobalt.
								
										 
 
And Cadillac has been weighed down by a variety of problems, posting a 2-percent sales decline for the year as the brand awaits a hoped-for healing touch by Johan de Nysschen. He is just taking the Cadillac helm after working wonders at Audi of America and grading “incomplete” for his subsequent effort to turn around Infiniti. 
Here are 10 reasons Buick and GMC continue to accelerate: 
Great and timely products: While Cadillac has gotten attention for the 2013 North American Car of the Year, the ATS sedan, Buick arguably has more effectively overhauled its entire product line over the last few years, beginning with the Enclave SUV that was launched for the 2008 model year. Most recently, Buick has scored a direct hit with its new Encore compact SUV, a very timely entry in one of the industry’s hottest segments. Encore sales through July were up 80 percent over its launch year.
										
										 
Meanwhile, GMC has been playing a role in this regard as well, most notably with the new 2015 version of its Yukon large SUV, whose sales were up by 53 percent over 2013 sales of the old version. A new version of the GMC Sierra pickup truck has raised sales by 6 percent over those of the earlier version a year ago. 
Bulls-eye advertising: The Buick ad that came out earlier this year — in which consumers couldn’t believe the slick vehicles in front of them were actually Buicks — has scored heavily for the brand. Buick plans to go back to that particular creative well in a campaign extension that debuts in September. 
“It leverages consumers’ misperceptions and reels them in,” DiSalle said. “The fundamental issue we had to get after was false familiarity with the brand; a lot of consumers have a dated perspective of what the brand is. They’ll cite older vehicles like Rendezvous or LeSabre or Century” because many used vehicles under those now-defunct Buick nameplates are still on the road. 
Working backward from the test: Major boosts for the brands have come from a recent spate of significant third-party evaluations of perceived quality levels in which Buick and GMC brands and products have outshone all or nearly all other domestic brands, including annual surveys by J.D. Power &amp; Associates and the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Turns out brand managers have looked intently at how such things are graded and have made great efforts to satisfy those specific measurements. 
“We’ve worked hard with J.D. Power on the design phase of our vehicles and issues that affect perceived quality and usability, including things like ergonomics,” Duncan Aldred, GM vice president of Buick and GMC, told me. “We’ve identified problems before the vehicles have even been launched, areas where customers wouldn’t have been delighted, and addressed them.” 
Savvy dealers: Every automaker now is focusing on customer satisfaction at the dealership as one of the last frontiers for boosting sales and market share. But Buick/GMC dealers have found ways to excel — even faced with the challenge unique within GM of having to “dual” the brands in the same facility. “We have a huge focus on the customer at the dealer level,” Aldred said. “The way we’re treating our customers is top-drawer.” 
DiSalle explained that the brands “are highly complementary in the [retail]-channel structure because they’re both premium brands” and “our dealers as well as our products know how to deliver on that premium experience.” Proof point: About 20 percent of all GMC orders are for Denali versions of the brand’s vehicles, the most premium trim level. 
Passing under the recall radar: Buick and GMC have escaped nearly as much notice as Chevrolet has received in GM’s radar mess. “Clearly the number of Buick units that have been embroiled have been few and far between especially compared with Chevy,” Aldred said. “We’ve been able to stay focused on other things, positive news.” 
  Comfort in their own skin: There was confusion for decades about exactly how GM positioned the Buick brand, first vis-a-vis Oldsmobile and more recently compared with Cadillac. Sometimes GM executives would even insist that Buick was a second true luxury brand like Cadillac. 
But now brand stewards seem comfortable in Buick’s true skin: as a “near-luxury” brand that holds down a vast swath of market real estate for GM.&nbsp; “Buick is a luxury brand but one that’s not afraid to laugh; we don’t take ourselves too seriously,” DiSalle explained. “We’re approachable and inviting and warm. A lot of luxury brands distinguish themselves as an exclusive club. Buick isn’t that.” 
Very little string-pushing: Buick and GMC are the GM brands that don’t have to try to arm-twist consumers to buy electrified vehicles that they don’t want. Chevrolet has lowered its once-vast expectations for Volt in large part because mainstream Americans have rejected plug-in hybrids and fully electrified EVs so far. Cadillac hasn’t yet&nbsp; gotten its ELR plug-in off the ground sales-wise. 
Buick does sell its LaCrosse and Regal sedan with what it calls “eAssist,” a small onboard electric motor that boosts power and improves fuel consumption. But the brand doesn’t heavily market the option, and uptake is running at only about 15 percent in LaCrosse sales and just 4 percent in Regal sales. 
Connectivity strategy: Establishing perceived superiority in infotainment and connectivity would be a real boon for any brand that could achieve it. But so far, no single automaker has generated 50 percent or greater positive sentiment in conversations about connectivity in cars where those brands were mentioned, according to a new study by agency MRY. 
But at least Buick has a strategy for breaking out of the pack: Soon it will offer high-speed 4G LTE connectivity across its model range, as GM makes this capability available across more of its product line than any other automaker by the end of this year. And Buick will be offering it as a standard feature. 
“That will be a massive step forward,” Aldred said, “because it will give us a unique position in the premium market space, which we’ll increasingly leverage.” The competition, he said, will be fielding 4G LTE as well, “but it will be a little bit spotty and, in many instances, optional,” he said. “That’s something we’ll be exploiting.” 
The China factor: China is not just Buick’s biggest market, where consumers are wildly enthusiastic about the brand. GM’s design staff in China is increasingly designing Buick vehicles or features that end up in the U.S. market, beginning with the 2010 LaCrosse. 
The latest: a midsize crossover called Buick Envision that the brand is showing in China. Size-wise, it’s positioned squarely between Encore and Enclave and so would make sense for filling out Buick’s U.S. lineup. Sources told Automotive News that a form of Envisoin is slated for U.S. debut within the next couple of years. 
A promising pipeline: Beyond whether Envision shows up on American shores, Buick’s U.S. lineup will add seven new or redesigned models over the next three years. And a beefier Buick lineup will mean only better things for the Buick-GMC juggernaut.