What's In Store for Israeli International Company Listings? What's In Store for Israeli International Company Listings? Investing in the Israeli banking sector was brought into sharp focus back in February when PFZW, the €140 billion (c.&pound;115bn) pension fund for the Dutch healthcare industry, disclosed that it would undertake an “extensive review” of a decision by its pension fund manager, PGGM, to divest from five Israeli banks over what was cited as the banks’ involvement in financing Israeli settlements in the occupied Palestinian territories. 
The issue has been a hot one and certainly proved contentious as the Dutch pension fund received a load of flak including over allegations of its pro-Palestinian bias. It also sparked protests outside PGGM’s offices and the Israeli government even summoned the Dutch ambassador for talks.
	
								 
By contrast ABP, the Netherlands’ €325bn civil service pension fund, announced late this August that it will not divest from three Israeli banks – Bank Hapoalim, Bank Leumi and Bank Mizrahi-Tefahot – due to their alleged involvement in the so-called occupied territories of the West Bank. Desmond Tutu, the former Anglican archbishop for South Africa and a Nobel Peace Prize winner, even stepped into the fray questioning whether ABP should remain invested in the banks. 
Whatever the merits to the arguments the spotlight has certainly been thrown on responsible investing and investing in Israeli companies – be they listed domestically on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, in New York either on Nasdaq or the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), or indeed London. As an investor you might want to examine the state of the play as regards what is on offer, international listing activity in these companies and how they been performing lately.
								
										 
As of 11 July 2014 there were nineteen Israeli companies listed on the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG) – up from fifteen in early March this year – with six on the exchange’s Main Market (including BATM Advanced, Emblaze, Frutarom Industries, one of the ten largest flavour and fragrance companies globally, and, Nomad Holdings), 10 on the London’s fledgling Alternative Investment Market (AIM) and one on the High Growth Segment (HGS) through Matomy Media Group, an Israeli digital advertising company, that recently had a market cap of &pound;207.57m (c.$332m). 
In total the combined market capitalisation of Israeli companies on the LSEG, which spans biotech, exploration, gambling, Internet, investment services, media, mobile telecoms and chemical sectors, stood recently &pound;4.32 billion (c.$6.9bn). 
So far this year there have been five IPOs by Israeli entities choosing London with Matomy Media (on 11 July), Marimedia Ltd (28 May), Nomad Holdings Ltd and Bagir Group Ltd (both 15 April), and, XLMedia (21 March). Their combined market capitalisation of &pound;735.19m (c.$1,176.30m) equates to some 17% of the total market cap of the nineteen Israeli companies listed on the UK exchange. 
Around sixty Israeli companies are listed at Nasdaq by comparison. These are companies that are headquartered in Israel and so does not include companies founded in Israel but with U.S. domiciles &nbsp;The total market capitalisation of Israeli listed companies on Nasdaq is north of US$30bn. And, currently Israel is the second largest foreign country represented on this U.S. exchange after China, which accounts for around 100 listings.
										
										 
While there have been a number of delistings of Israeli companies in recent years on the London market and especially on AIM, this should not be viewed necessarily as being negative. In 2013 the LSEG saw 239 companies delist overall – irrespective of country of origin – and was a broad trend. Some reasons for delisting at the smaller end have included illiquid market conditions for shares in companies with capitalisations below &pound;20m (c.$32m) and a requirement for AIM companies to have a so called nominated advisor (NOMAD). 
However, it should be noted that at the height before the financial crisis there were around fifty Israeli company listed on the UK market. Today Israeli companies listed on AIM have various countries of incorporation including the UK, Israel, the U.S. and Jersey. 
There have nevertheless been some notable success stories for Israeli companies in London. PLUS500, an AIM constituent and an investment services company that listed in July 2013, saw its shares trade at &pound;4.61 (c.$7.38) as of 29 August 2014 – implying a market capitalisation of &pound;529.63m based on 114.89m shares in circulation. The PLUS500 share price hit a 52-week high on 10 April 2014 and was up at around &pound;7.07 (c.$11.31) – up a low of &pound;1.23 (c.$1.97) last October. 
Offering an online contracts-for-difference (CFD) retail trading platform in over fifty countries for customers PLUS500 has seen significant growth and reported 56,819 active users trading via its platform in 2013 – up 53% rise over 2012. Their maiden full year results saw a 207% increase in revenues to $60.7m for the three months ended 31 March 2014. The company’s trading platform is accessible from multiple operating systems (Windows, smartphones (iOS and Android)), tablets and the Internet. Though the share price is rich this might still be one stock to keep an eye on. 
Playtech Plc, an Israeli software company founded in 1999 listed of the LSEG’s main market in July 2012 and as of late August had market capitalisation of around &pound;2bn (c.$3.2bn). This March it announced the launch of its Live Games for Ladbrokes and its ‘Live Clickable Lobby Stream’ feature. The latter is touted as enabling “players to join live games from a real-time lobby stream with a single click.” Shares in the company have fluctuated over the past 52-week period at between &pound;5.70 and &pound;8.18 each, and were trading at &pound;7.80 on 29 August 2014. 
According to LSEG officials, Israeli companies and especially those in the IT sector were expected to see a strong year in 2014 for IPOs on the UK exchange. This is despite the recent &pound;300m listing failure in April 2014 by Matomy Media after it fell short with investors in Europe. LSEG representatives asserted that this event did not reflect a lack of faith in Israeli companies. As it transpired Matomy decided listed a smaller amount of shares this July on the LSEG’s High Growth Segment, which allows entrepreneurs behind fast growing companies to issue more shares when conditions are right. 
Luca Peyrano, LSEG’s Head of Primary Markets for Europe, speaking during a visit to Tel Aviv back in April said : “There is a lot of interest and a growing trend for [Israeli] companies exploring the idea of coming to London to raise capital.” Declining to give exact numbers he nevertheless expected 2014 to see the “strongest level” of activity for Israeli companies since 2007. 
While the London market is not awash with Israeli companies to invest in there are some interesting prospects. It is true that their track record has been mixed, but the hope is that with larger businesses coming to list in London with more robust business models the chances for success should be better – both in terms of the float and their longer-term prospects. As the summer lull comes to an end time will tell how many more list on foreign exchanges.