As NASCAR Chase Looms, Henrick's Jimmie Johnson On Yet Another Title As NASCAR Chase Looms, Henrick's Jimmie Johnson On Yet Another Title The more things change, the more they stay the same. With one more race before NASCAR’s 10-race Chase shoot-out starts at Chicagoland to&nbsp;determine the 2014 Sprint Cup Champion, all four drivers from powerhouse Hendrick Motorsports are in the lineup of 16 – Jeff Gordon,&nbsp;Dale Earnhardt Jr. and Jimmie Johnson, with three wins each – and Kasey Kahne, whose win at Atlanta Sunday gave him a spot. 
But Johnson, if he could pull off another Cup title, would tie stock car legends Richard Petty and Dale Earnhardt Sr. for the all-time record of seven.
	
								 
Does it help or hurt NASCAR’s popularity if one driver is so dominant? That has always been the debate among racing pundits, and probably will be for decades to come. But no one can doubt Johnson’s immense popularity and contributions to the sport. 
Here are a few words from Johnson, who will be all of 39 this month, from an interview I did awhile back as he was trying to capture his fifth championship. As I said, the more things change, the more they stay the same.
								
										 
Jim Clash: Of your championships, which was most special? 
Jimmie Johnson: It’s tough to compare them. But for me, the first has always been the most special. There is so much that led up to it. You just dream you can be a champion, and then the reality is there and wow, it’s off the charts. 
 
Clash: How would another feel?
										
										 
Johnson: I haven’t really thought about it. If we win again, it would be post-driving career, looking back on the mark I had left on the sport, when it would really hit me. Right now, now it’s hard enough to believe we’ve won as many of these things as we have. 
Clash: Over the years, there have been periods of tension been between you and Hendrick teammate Jeff Gordon, especially in 2010. 
Johnson: We hate each other [laughs]. No, you’re going to have run-ins with anyone and everyone on-track, it’s just a matter of time. We’re both fighting for space on the track, we both have opinions on how someone may have done something wrong, and [in 2010] it all just came to a head. The good thing is we’ve been able to be honest with each other. That one went a little further than past experiences with contact on the track but, like other times, we were able to work through it. It’s hard to think we were ever saying unkind things to each other on the radio. 
Clash: Is it every man for himself in the Chase, or do you talk with your teammates beforehand? 
Johnson: It is every man for himself. But we have protocol through the company as to how we work together. It’s all open-book. We’ll work as hard as we can to make our cars better and to share information. But our styles are different. Jeff, for example, likes a tighter racecar. So we’ve found over the years that our engineers and crew chiefs really have to dig into their notes and say, well maybe it didn’t work for Jeff but is that something that Jimmie’s style would like? We spend a lot of time trying to read between the lines. If Jeff said this thing is perfect, I would get in and say, ‘Naw, I don’t like it.’ So that alone separates us, makes it easier to be open-book. 
Clash: Any NASCAR rules you would change? 
Johnson: Instead of particular competition rules, when you’re working this thing 36 weeks a year we could use more time off. The season’s awfully long. We’re having trouble filling tracks twice a year. Do we expand and have 36 separate racetracks in 36 parts of the country to grow the sport, or can we shave it down to 30 or 32 races a year? It’s a grind for us year after year. And, as a driver, I have it easier than anyone. Our crew guys have to be there every Monday morning. It’s a young man’s sport. They’re working around the clock day after day. 
Clash: Do you enjoy filming Lowe’s commercials for your sponsor? 
  Johnson: I’m more comfortable as time goes on. It’s just not something I grew up doing. Some people take to it quickly, are comfortable, relaxed, all that stuff. I can see the progress I’ve made over the years. I’m much happier with the relaxed Jimmie there now than what I was when we started. They know me well; they’re creating fun spots to play into my personality. 
&nbsp;