Does Beijing Care About The Threat Of Civil Disobedience In Hong Kong? Does Beijing Care About The Threat Of Civil Disobedience In Hong Kong? The answer appears to be no, judging from the tough stance projected by government representatives from China’s top legislative body today. Beijing’s officials insist that the central government has done Hong Kong a big favor by giving it some form of electoral freedom, even as pro-democracy advocates express outrage at the widely unpopular election plan that Beijing proposed.
	
								 
The resolution, which was approved unanimously by the National People’s Congress yesterday afternoon, rejected repeated calls for an open election or a low threshold of nomination for candidates of the 2017 chief executive election. Although it grants voting rights to all eligible voters, the proposed system requires candidates to first gain majority approval from a mostly pro-Beijing nominating committee, and limits the number of eligible candidates to two to three. 
If the proposal fails to secure the required support from Hong Kong’s Legislative Council, where pan-democrats have enough votes to block it, then the 2017 election will follow the old procedure of the previous election.
								
										 
Thousands of Hong Kong citizens poured out to Tamar Park last night to express their discontent at a protest organized by democracy advocates. Leaders of Occupy Central see Beijing’s decision as marking the end of dialogue, vowing to begin protests that could potentially paralyze Hong Kong’s financial district. Scholarism, a student organization advocating for popular election, say they will boycott classes starting in the latter half of September. 
Even relatively moderate politicians have condemned the proposal, with former Chief Secretary for Administration Anson Chan calling it “a bad decision from all points of views.” 
But Beijing seems unmoved by the public outrage and unconcerned about its potentially disruptive consequence. Instead, representatives from the NPC reminded Hong Kong to show some appreciation for its first election with universal suffrage. 
“Before the National People’s Congress voted to pass the Basic Law in 1990, Hong Kong had no election, nor democracy,” said Li Fei, deputy secretary general of the NPC Standing Committee at a press conference today. “In 17 years, [China] has completed a journey that the British once did, but one that took the western world 100 to 200 years.”
										
										 
Li also said the proposed election system cannot be judged as “loose” or “tight” because it is the first of its kind in Hong Kong, in response to a question that said the proposed procedures appear to impose stricter rules than in the past election, where candidates needed only one eighth of the support from the nomination committee. 
Li rejected the possibility of public recommendation of candidates, emphasizing that the Basic Law has vested such power only within the nomination committee. However, details of the nomination process are yet to be finalized. According to Li, variations such as having a two-round nomination, where the first round would not require 50% approval, could be considered. Such plans are in line with the most conservative proposals of electoral reform, which the pro-democracy advocates see as violating international standards of universal suffrage. 
Zhang Rongshun, the vice chairperson on the Legal Affairs Commission of the NPC Standing Committee, added that the issue of whether a percentage of blank votes by registered voters would require another round of balloting could be discussed in the future. Li, nonetheless, stressed that the nomination committee would not pick candidates “the entire society cannot identify with.” 
The key message to take away though, is that Beijing would not give in on the basic structure laid out in the plan. Citing the wish of the Hong Kong public for universal suffrage, Li subtly hints that the outcome of an impasse could only be more years of waiting. 
“We hope to implement universal suffrage with this framework,” he said, “If this time the plan does not pass, then [the Hong Kong people] would hope for it to pass in the next five years. If it again doesn’t not pass the next time, they’d hope for it to pass in the ensuing five years.” 
Asked who should be blamed for being responsible in the unfortunate situation, Li threw out a brief yet bleak response before hurrying out of the press conference room. “Whoever that blocks it, shall be responsible.”