College Football "Mid Majors" Face Uncertain Future College Football "Mid Majors" Face Uncertain Future Over the past year, the “Big Five” NCAA football conferences (ACC, Big Ten, Big 12, SEC, Pac 12) made clear to the NCAA executive staff and the rest of the NCAA membership that they were going play by their own rules. &nbsp;Yet, the shifting tectonic plates in college sports are creating fault lines that put programs a notch below the heavyweights at risk, even those as venerable as Army and Navy. 
The expansion and lure of revenues pushed this evolution from the demand side, but there have been organizational prods also. &nbsp; From the late 1980s onward, an increasing number of schools made the jump to the NCAA with many moving into Division I status, especially in sports outside of football, seeking part of the revenue pie.
	
								 
Even with football, the economic fundamentals pushed more teams to consider FBS rather than FCS (I-AA) status with about 20 schools making the jump. &nbsp;Crudely put, the operational costs were not a lot higher (coaching staffs being the main one) while the potential revenues were a lot higher. &nbsp;Adding 20 or 30 more scholarship athletes entails mainly soft dollar expenses. &nbsp; In the NCAA at large and within Division I, these entrants gained seats at the voting table, even if their political clout wasn’t the same. &nbsp;Eventually, the revenues and this organizational morass led the heavyweights to say “enough.”  
 
 
  
  Boise State Plays Oregon (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
								
										
  
 
Some staff or administrators at the mid-majors fret about the inability to compete with the&nbsp;heavyweights as those conferences loosen up restrictions. &nbsp;That’s a misplaced concern. &nbsp;The big boys already have enormous recruiting advantages based on attendance, TV, and fan base whether there are restrictions on aid to players or on the size of media guides (really, such things have existed). &nbsp;A player recruited to Alabama isn’t choosing WKU whether their media guides are the same size or not. 
The main threat to the mid majors is in scheduling. &nbsp;My institution’s football team, the WKU Hilltoppers now of Conference USA secured a nice win (59-31) over Bowling Green from the Mid American Conference. &nbsp;Next, they move up in class to face Illinois’ Fighting Illini from the Big 10. This season, this is the only major conference opponent that they will face, but in the past few years and over the next four seasons, they have 2-3 major opponents scheduled each season. 
For teams from conferences such as C-USA, MAC, American Athletic, Mountain West, and Sun Belt, these games with the heavyweights are vital to the financial footing. &nbsp;Ignoring the rubbish that major programs making $40 to $100 million per year are losing money, among the mid majors, with revenues normally ranging from $5 to $20 millions (depending on the school), the big pay days for playing the heavyweights matters. 
Among the major conferences, there have already been changes requiring more non-conference games against teams from other Big Five members. &nbsp;There has even been growing talk among coaches of going to a major conference only schedule. &nbsp;Power conferences scheduling only power conference teams in an NFL style approach to scheduling.
										
										 
This isn’t mere elitism. &nbsp;The major schools have found it increasingly difficult to fill there stands for games against clearly outclassed opponents. &nbsp;WKU appearing at Tennessee or Georgia Southern showing up at Florida doesn’t generate much interest. &nbsp;Even variable pricing policies don’t help much with such unattractive opponents. &nbsp;The time cost outweighs the perceived value even at a very low ticket price. 
It’s not clear that any of the Big 5 members will actually make such a move. &nbsp;They may want a weaker opponent or two early in the season to function much like pre-season games function for the NFL. &nbsp;Still, every additional game that teams must play against each other within the Big Five reduces games outside of &nbsp;it for the mid majors. 
These moves don’t necessarily imply that only two tiers, Big Five and everyone else will exists. &nbsp;Even among the mid majors, there are substantial differences in fan base and interest. &nbsp;Teams like Boise State and South Florida can rival or supass the weaker members of the Big 5 such as Vanderbilt, Mississippi State, Northwestern, and Iowa State. &nbsp;It might suggest that there will be a long term shakeout by which the stronger members of the mid majors coalesce while those with more limited fan interest move back toward FCS.