Two Reasons Why Extreme Social Surveillance Doesn't Replace Privacy Two Reasons Why Extreme Social Surveillance Doesn't Replace Privacy More than a few people maintain that if we all knew everything about each other, the world would be a better place. The total transparency argument takes many forms, and shades of it can be seen in the surveillance policy and discourse that holds that “more information is always better than less information,” and information asymmetries should always be remedied by more disclosure and surveillance, not less. 
Although this view tends to be espoused alongside political propositions about government accountability, the personal information points can be considered on their own. Through their lens, total transparency eradicates misunderstanding, promotes efficiency, and motivates good conduct. Once the veil of privacy is lifted, our prejudices putatively will go away and we will act on the up and up—if not because of enlightenment, then due to fear of social castigation.
	
								 
We disagree. If total&nbsp;peer-to-peer transparency wever were possible, the very strategies required to create it would undermine the salutatory outcomes anti-privacy advocates champion. In addition to ethical and political considerations lie practical roadblocks—impediments that prevent citizens from absorbing information and responding to it in purely selfless and rational ways. Because these hindrances are exceptionally powerful, idealistic fantasies start to crowd out realistic discussions when versions of the total transparency&nbsp;ideology creep into policy debates. 
 
 A Year Without Privacy 
Noah Dyer is the latest person to make case for the virtues of a totally transparent society.&nbsp;Touting the mantra that never goes away—I’ve got “nothing to hide”—he mounted a Kickstarter campaign, “A Year Without Privacy”, hoping to raise the funds needed to publicize every aspect of his life. To get more attention focused on his cause, Dyer contacted The Atlantic staff writer Conor Friedersdorf and presented him with the password for his e-mail account. All information was deemed fair game. Nothing was too personal and declared off limits. 
Friedersdorf quickly realized that Dyer had absolutely no right to grant that permission. E-mail is never a wholly individual technology. It’s an interpersonal tool and Dyer certainly didn’t get the okay from everyone he’s interacted with over email—all the folks with messages archived there who want to limit how many people know their business. 
Friedersdorf found Dyer’s presumptuousness morally outrageous. In response, he offered wise words. 
										
										 

 “Every one of us is entrusted with information that our family, friends, colleagues, and acquaintances would rather that we kept private, and while there is no absolute obligation for us to comply with their wishes—there are, indeed, times when we have a moral obligation to speak out in order to defend other goods—assigning the privacy of others a value of zero is callous.”
 
In taking umbrage with Dyer’s views, Friedersdorf continues the tradition of privacy theorists—like Daniel Solove—refuting the total transparency ideology. Although much doubt has already been cast on this extremist position, Dyer raises two interesting points that are worth combatting with renewed skepticism. They express key flaws in the total transparency argument. 
See It/Stop It Thesis 
In an earlier discussion about his project, Dyer offers the following rejoinder to anyone who believes privacy can be a crucial protection against spousal abuse. 

 “An abuser requires privacy. In a world where an abuser doesn’t have privacy, neighbors [or police] are going to stand up to that…If I knew the guy downstairs was beating his wife … he’d need privacy in order to do that. In a world without privacy, we’d also know he’s searching for her information. If there was a restraining order, we’d know he was doing things that showed an intention to violate that restraining order. We could prevent abuse in the first place.”
 
This view comes up often enough that the fallacy deserves its own name. Let’s call it the “See It/Stop It” thesis. The causal presumption driving it is the assumption that heightened surveillance of impropriety (see it) will lead to folks taking action against it (stop or discourage it). After all, could the world possibly look on as innocent people suffer? 
Sadly, the answer is yes. Even erroneously assuming that the availability of surveilled information is synonymous with having knowledge of that information, knowing that something bad is occurring doesn’t guarantee that anyone will try to stop it. 
Visibility Does Not Always Deter Undesirable Behavior 
Consider lessons conveyed by scholars like Thomas Keenan, Director of the Human Rights Program at Bard, who have studied the vexing question of whether media coverage of suffering motivates people to take a stand against it or desensitizes them to what’s going on. After analyzing the effects of the media reporting on the Kosovo War and other conflicts, he concludes that the evidence does not support the existence of the necessary connection envisioned by advocates of the “See it/Stop it” thesis—a thesis that also was endorsed by folks who idealized the ethical power of television for ending humanitarian crises. 
“Images, information, or knowledge,” Keenan writes, “will never guarantee any outcome, force or drive any action.” “They are in that sense,” he notes, “just like weapons or words, a condition, but not a sufficient one.” 
One especially depressing passage from Keenan’s essay is worth quoting at length. It conveys the deep sense of anguish people under assault feel when they look to the camera’s watchful eye only for their looks of distress to be ignored. 

 “Visiting Sarajevo at Christmas in 1993, less than a year into its suffering, the Archbishop of Paris Cardinal Jean-Marie Lustiger noted the strikingly public or visible character of the carnage there. In an interview with Zlatko Dizdarevic of Sarajevo’s Oslobodjenje, he compared the siege of the city to the horrors of World War II, but with a significant difference: 
 Here, however, there are no secrets. There are journalists here, from here pictures are transmitted, there are satellite communications, all of this is known. In this city there are soldiers of the United Nations, well armed, and nonetheless it all continues to happen. This is unbelievable; this is overwhelming. One man yesterday told me that everyone here feels like they are animals in a zoo that others come to look at, to take pictures of, and to be amazed. And then, those up in the mountains also treat them like animals, killing them and ‘culling’ them. 
   Dizdarevic asked how it was possible that, ‘all of this goes on without any end in sight, in spite of the fact that we are surrounded by hundreds of cameras [... and] that everyone knows everything and sees everything?’ 
 Lustiger responded: ‘There is no answer for that — I really do not have an answer. However, that means that it is always possible to get worse and worse.’ Lustiger’s bold and uncompromising position, as rare as it was at the time, has now achieved the status of common sense. Among the too many would-be ‘lessons of Bosnia,’ this one stands out for its frequent citation: that a country was destroyed and a genocide happened, in the heart of Europe, on television, and what is known as the world or the West simply looked on and did nothing. ‘While America Watched,’ as the title of a documentary on the genocide in Bosnia broadcast by ABC Television in 1994 already put it. 
 The surveillance was as complete as the abandonment. 
 Bosnians, said one to the American journalist David Rieff, ‘felt as you would feel if you were mugged in full view of a policeman and he did nothing to rescue you.’”
 
Of course, there are many complex reasons that account for why individuals don’t take action against visible wrongdoing. Some kinds of wrongdoing certainty are easier to stop than others. Indeed, we readily concede that it’s easier to shame a petty thief or a jerk than take down a war criminal. But the complete transparency argument doesn’t seem to wrestle with the cost of retribution in a rigorous way. The guiding assumption is that exposing bad things is enough to motivate witnesses to stop them. Beyond bracketing the question of how much effort folks find reasonable to expend in various situations that require remedy, little thought is given which kinds of bad acts are more likely than others to stoke our ire when subject to social magnification. 
Increased surveillance actually can reduce its effectiveness. Research from psychology on the “bystander effect” gives us further reason to be skeptical of the See It/Stop It thesis. This phenomenon shows that the likelihood of someone aiding a person in need can decrease when there are lots of other people around who appear capable of providing assistance. Multiply the number of witnesses and responsibility can be so diffused that nobody does anything. 
Additionally, as recent research conducted by Vincent Hendricks and other Danish scholars shows, social factors can exacerbate the problem. Sadly, people often see some individuals as less worthy of help than others. 

 “The experiments involved getting three actors to take a tumble on one of the main thoroughfares in central Copenhagen – a young woman, a young man and an elderly man. Each actor had two different outfits – a business suit and a shabby-looking costume. It turns out that the costumes alone elicited strong public signals. 
 If the young woman or man or the elderly gentlemen were wearing business suits and fell, the time it took for someone to intervene could be as short as a few seconds. For the actors wearing shabby outfits, it could take up to around four minutes for anyone to intervene, even though plenty of people witnessed the accident…. 
 If a young man falls holding a can of beer, a clear public signal for others to walk on by might be sent because of the social stigma attached to humans with beer cans. If the beer can is removed, help is offered much more quickly.”
 
See Imperfection Become Tolerant Thesis: Or, Human Biases Don’t Require Secrecy 
Social biases don’t just influence how people respond to what they see. They also influence how people think. And this brings us to the second point of Dyer’s that needs to be rejected. 
Dyer claims: ‟In a world without privacy, we’ll recognize that people drink and people like to have fun and those people aren’t bad people. We’ll just accept people for who they are.” 
Dyer thus believes transparency will lead to relaxed expectations of how others should behave and ultimately create an atmosphere of tolerance. This is another causal argument. Let’s call it the “See Imperfection Become Tolerant” thesis. 
As with the “See It/Stop It” thesis, it reposes on an overly idealized view of human behavior. In reality, we process all information through a number of well-known and studied cognitive biases. For example, people have a tendency to interpret data in self-serving ways and in ways that reinforce their existing prejudices. This phenomenon has been well-documented by psychologists under terms like “confirmation bias.”” People also irrationally view themselves as exceptional compared to third parties, as well as consistently and irrationally attribute the unfortunate circumstances of others to moral failings, while justifying their own unfortunate circumstances as just bad luck. 
In short, we have a deeply embedded and undeniable tendency to think and act irrationally in the face of clearly presented information. And yet Dyer seems to presuppose that if, for example, transparency led to us discovering that infidelity occurs more often than we suppose, we’ll become less moralistic about it and more accepting of non-monogamous behavior. 
But why assume that people would interpret the data this way? Why should we expect people to look at statistics in this dispassionate way rather than focusing on more fine-tuned distinctions, like whether member of particular races or social classes cheat more than others? And, why not presume that the human propensity for rationalization would just continue to be just as pervasive? 
Bottom line: Even though there’s already a relatively significant amount of transparency in our modern world, biases still persist. Social transparency is certainly helpful and necessary in many contexts. But we are expecting too much from it if we believe its presence can make us rational. 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp;