Has The Ice Bucket Challenge Changed Healthcare Fundraising Forever? Has The Ice Bucket Challenge Changed Healthcare Fundraising Forever? There’s no shortage of Ice Bucket Challenge knockoffs. From giving rice to the needy to taking a pie to the face for suicide prevention, everyone’s trying to start a challenge that will receive even a fraction of what the ALS Association received from the Ice Bucket Challenge, which as of Aug. 29 was $100.9 million. 
Now that the challenge is beginning to cool down, the question that many are asking is: Will any other challenges take off or was the Ice Bucket Challenge an isolated success story?
	
								 
According to Doug White, director of the Master of Science in Fundraising Management program at Columbia University, the success of the Ice Bucket Challenge was viral happenstance that shouldn’t try to be replicated by other charities. 
“Charities may get the impression from this challenge that it’s easy to make money if you find a gimmick and get people to do it,” said White, who has over 30 years of nonprofit leadership experience. “But charities need to do more work at maintaining relationships or growing them, since 40-50 percent of new donors don’t come back.”
								
										 
White thinks that a major reason why the Ice Bucket Challenge has been so successful—beyond its perfect timing, public model and sheer fun—&nbsp;is its novelty. Since people eventually “get tired of even exciting things,” there’s a “lifespan to this kind of thing,” White says. Another success story like this is not impossible, but too unique and remarkable to plan for or expect, according to White. 
Bravelets COO Elisabeth Nakielny doesn’t think the challenge-concept is a fleeting success, pointing to the No Makeup Selfie for Cancer Awareness, which was a campaign that raised &pound;8m in six days for Cancer Research UK in March. Many of those same people who took bare-face photos of themselves in the spring are now dumping ice water over their heads, which goes to show “we’re all looking for that next thing that’s going to take off,” Nakielny says. 
“That doesn’t mean that every campaign will be successful, but there’s still room for many of these challenges to be successful in any given year,” said Nakielny, whose company sells jewelry to raise money for various causes. 
Nakielny thinks challenges like the Ice Bucket Challenge have potential for global reach, since they make the challenge-concept that’s been largely limited to events like marathons and walks more accessible. As for cultivating relationships with existing donors, she doesn’t see why that can’t coexist with quick, fun campaigns.
										
										 
 
No other similar campaigns to the Ice Bucket Challenge, like the HD Pie in the Face Challenge and Doubtfire Face for Suicide Prevention, have raised anywhere near what the ALS Association raised. It’s thousands versus millions, which has people wondering why the Ice Bucket Challenge was so successful. Was it the fact that it was big, simple and selfless? Or personal, social and feel-good? Or just flat-out, it’s hot outside and we’re sick of negative news? Everyone’s throwing around theories. And many are plugging away at what they think the formula of its success is by creating new challenges. 
What’s next? Will it be a mayonnaise slip n’ slide or hot sauce challenge?, as English instructor William Folden saw when his students turned in their own challenges for a homework assignment. Or will the challenge-concept die off and nonprofits return to the drawing board? 
It’s anyone’s guess at this point.