Super PAC Running Unorthodox Ads Tying Mark Pryor To ‘Extremist Liberals’ Super PAC Running Unorthodox Ads Tying Mark Pryor To ‘Extremist Liberals’ 						
	A conservative super PAC plans to go up on television in the crucial Arkansas Senate race this week to tie incumbent Democratic Sen. Mark Pryor to “extremist liberals” in Washington D.C.
What’s unusual about these ads from the Conservative War Chest super PAC is that one version is two minutes long. Most political ads only run on television for 30 or 60 seconds each time.
The two-minute version and a 60-second spot will run during 10 p.m. news shows and Sunday morning political shows in the Little Rock and Fort Smith media markets, according to people affiliated with the organization.
The Arkansas Senate race is one of the closest in the country. Republicans are hoping Republican Rep. Tom Cotton can oust Pryor, a veteran officeholder, in this conservative-leaning state.
The Daily Caller was provided an early copy of the new ad, which will start being played across the state on Tuesday. The fast-paced ad references a variety of issues while flashing photos of prominent liberals.
“Pryor is loyal,” the ad’s narrator says. “Not to constituents but Washington liberals.”
Liberals who make appearances in the ad: MSNBC hosts Rachel Maddow and Chris Matthews, billionaire George Soros, AFL-CIO president Richard Trumka, former IRS official Lois Lerner, environmentalist donor Tom Steyer, filmmaker Michael Moore, actor Alec Baldwin, former Obama aide David Axelrod, President Barack Obama, New York Sen. Chuck Schumer, Nevada Sen. Harry Reid, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Attorney General Eric Holder.
The exact amount of the ad buy wasn’t immediately known, though the super PAC told TheDC they expect to spend more than six figures on the ads.

Super PAC spokesman Mike Flynn said the two-minute long ad was “inspired by some of the longer-format commercials that did so well in the Super Bowl.”
“Voters need to know Pryor’s record is incredibly left-wing right across the board,” Flynn said. “So we don’t stick to just one or two issues.”
This ad buy is the first of its kind for the super PAC this cycle. “Arkansas is just the first state,” Flynn said. “We plan to be active in 14-15 states this year.”
The Real Clear Politics polling average of the race shows Cotton slightly ahead, leading 45 percent to 43.3 percent.
WATCH:
 
Follow Alex on Twitter