At Odds With West, Russia Slowly Moves On At Odds With West, Russia Slowly Moves On Russia is slowly moving on from Europe, following months of sanctions over a political battle between Moscow and Kiev. &nbsp;On Tuesday, the&nbsp;Russian Communications Ministry told Vedomosti newspaper that it was developing a number of measures to support domestically produced software for imported software. 
The moves is clearly a slap in the face to American software companies which are highly prevalent in Russia.
	
								 
“The department proposes to establish a 15% price preference in the procurement of domestic software. If the foreign software is purchased while it has domestic counterparts, it will be necessary to write a justification and post it on a public portal,” Vedomosti reported, citing the letter by the Communications Ministry. 
On Monday, the CEO of Gazprom,&nbsp;Alexei Miller inaugurated a gas pipeline to China together with Vladimir Putin and Chinese Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli. &nbsp;The ceremony marked the welding of the first link of “The Power of Siberia” gas pipeline outside Yakutsk in eastern Siberia as construction of the $20.8 billion pipeline that will bring gas from the country’s far east to China began in earnest. Work on the Chinese section is due to start next year. Gazprom is state-owned. &nbsp;The government has been touting its own “Asian tilt” as it tries to diversify away from Europe as its key client for oil and gas. &nbsp;They have an even hungrier market to their south and east.
								
										 
 
Last month, Russia moved on from U.S. and European food suppliers, at least temporarily. &nbsp;Following a ban of animal protein imports like beef, pork and cod, Russia has turned to Brazil, New Zealand, India and China instead. &nbsp;It is unclear whether these bans will ultimately hurt U.S. and European food exporters in the long term. Once the bans are lifted, Russian buyers could return to their old Western clients. 
For now, Russia is moving slowly away from the West, though this is out of politics, not economic common sense. 
Washington and Brussels both threatened deeper sanctions against Russia after Putin and his Ukrainian counterpart, Petro Poroshenko, failed to agree on a cease fire. &nbsp;Russia is believed to be supplying separatists movements with logistical, financial, humanitarian and military support to wage a mini-civil war in eastern Ukraine. &nbsp;That part of the country is made up of roughly half ethnic Russians. The separatist groups are waging a political war against Kiev in hopes for greater autonomy in the region. However, the last autonomous zone of Ukraine, the Crimean peninsula, was annexed by Russia on March 17, 24 hours after the independent governing council of Crimea held a public referendum on secession. &nbsp;Needless to say, Kiev fears Russia wants to Balkanize the country. &nbsp;Meanwhile, Russia’s government fears that Kiev’s new best friends in Washington and Brussels want to push Ukraine into the loving arms of NATO.
										
										 
Others see it as a means to get the E.U. to diversify away from Russian gas and consider importing U.S. natural gas instead. 
In a somewhat ironic speech on Monday, Russia’s permanent representative to the United Nations in Geneva, Alexey Borodavkin, said during a special session of the U.N. Human Rights Council that foreign interference has failed to build democracies. &nbsp;He was referring to the U.S. disaster zone known as Iraq. 
“The current tragedy in Iraq is clear evidence that wrongful external interference with the use of force, which leads to the destruction of the state, does not create democracy and does not contribute to the promotion of human rights,” RIA Novosti reported him saying on Tuesday. &nbsp; 
From Washington and Brussels’ point of view, Russia is the foreigner interfering in Ukraine. 
The war of words between Russia and Ukraine continues. 
The Russian Foreign Ministry said today that it was “shocked” by Ukrainian defense minister Valeriy Heletei’s comments on his Facebook page where he allegedly warned of an imminent war between Russia and Ukraine. 
“Moscow, of course, noted the remarks by Heletei, who claimed that ‘the operation to free east Ukraine from terrorists is over’ and announced the beginning of ‘the Great patriotic war’ that would leave ‘dozens of thousands’ dead. The degree of adequacy of the Ukrainian defense minister, who published this post on his Facebook page, requires a careful study, albeit not by military experts,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
Russian equities have been hard hit in recent weeks by the sanctions. President Obama said Thursday that more sanctions were possible. 
  The Market Vectors Russia (RSX) exchange traded fund fell 4.12% last week during what was a positive week for emerging market equities overall. &nbsp; Year-to-date, RSX is down over 17% while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is up 9.8%. 

 
 Click for full photo gallery: Countries With The Fastest Internet Speeds