Why I'm Going All-In On Customer Service Why I'm Going All-In On Customer Service You don’t need to know who Michael Porter is to know that if you want to stay in business you need to offer something your competitors don’t. Porter might put it in different terms, perhaps saying that continuous positive differentiation leads to sustainable competitive advantage, but regardless of the words we use, it’s a concept so simple a child running a lemonade stand can understand it. If you’re selling lemonade and your neighbor starts selling lemonade as well, you’ve got to make yourself better by being different, otherwise you’ll split your revenues with your neighbor, at best. 
My company doesn’t sell lemonade, but the principle is the same. We sell a service which, at first glance, is the same service hundreds of other companies also sell. We could differentiate on price, but if we were to do that we might as well just shut the doors right now and do something else. While we strive to be reasonable with our pricing, we’ll leave the intense focus on price-based differentiation to the Walmarts of the world and their counterparts in our industry. We do talk in our marketing and in our client pitches about quality and value. But the problem with focusing solely on quality and value is that while we could deliver the best results possible, we might still provide an experience that leaves clients dissatisfied. In addition, all our competitors claim to provide great quality and value as well, so even if we do provide a distinctly better service, a potential client would have difficulty discerning this based on our marketing. Even an existing client would have little basis for comparison unless they had previously worked with one of our competitors. The quest to find further opportunities for differentiation has led me to focus on customer service. But what I’ve found is an opportunity for more than merely developing a competitive advantage. But before we go to the “more” let’s talk a bit about that competitive advantage.
	
								 
3 Reasons Customer Service Matters 
If for no reason other than pure selfish greed, customer service still makes sense. There are three ways a culture of customer service pads the bottom line:
								
										 
1. Marketing. Sure, we like the low prices we can find at Southwest Airlines, but that’s only half of the genius that has made Southwest successful. The other half are the outrageously positive attitudes of the staff and the authenticity of their actions. The great service on what is perhaps the most no-frills airlines in the business includes the functionality of the website, the interaction I’ve had with the Southwest credit card support staff, and of course, the jokes (my personal favorite, heard while flying out of DC a few years back “For your comfort we’ve checked to make sure Congressman Weiner is not in either lavatory.”) This level of service results in word of mouth marketing, as my fellow contributor Kimberly A. Whitler wrote in her recent piece , Why Word Of Mouth Marketing Is The Most Important Social Media, “According to Nielsen, 92% of consumers believe recommendations from friends and family over all forms of advertising.” People talk about receiving exceptionally good service. And as we all know, they talk even more about receiving exceptionally poor service. Both are valid marketing reasons to focus on customer service in your business. 
2. Maintaining profits. I previously wrote about my positive experiences as a customer of Rackspace. Rackspace’s services cost me much more than what I could pay at another web hosting company. Many web hosting companies offer services for as little as $5 per month which, for me, is essentially free. Switching to one of these other companies would save me thousands of dollars each year, but it’s not worth it. The customer service I’ve received from Rackspace has saved me countless hours, and that’s worth more than the few hundred dollars I might save each month by using another company. 
Starbucks is as ubiquitous in Asia, where I’m based, as anywhere in the U.S. I’m not a coffee drinker, but I still spend a lot of time in Starbucks using the free wi-fi. It also happens to be the one place I can always depend on when I’m in need of either of two rarities in Hong Kong; an electrical outlet to charge my laptop or a clean public restroom. It helps that Starbucks team members go out of their way to make me feel welcome, even though I don’t enjoy their core product. When I start feeling guilty, I indulge myself with a hazelnut steamed milk. Remove the outlets, wi-fi, restrooms, and friendly attitude of the staff, and I’d take my own business and that of the many people I’ve had meetings with at Starbucks elsewhere. The fact they provide these trivialities is why I’m there. The quality of the coffee itself (or the steamed milk) matters little to me, although I have to admit it is the best tasting and most affordable steamed milk in town. 
 
&nbsp; 
3. Employee retention. When I had the chance to interview a Rackspace employee I asked him what it would take to hire him away from Rackspace. He couldn’t come up with an answer. Higher pay wouldn’t be enough. It was obvious he couldn’t imagine any other workplace having a culture like what he had found, and grown to love, at Rackspace. Here in Forbes, Cameron Keng pointed out that employees who stay in companies longer than two years get paid 50% less. At first, one might pity the foolish employees who don’t hop from one job to another. But you could also look at is as a damning statistic for those companies that have no way to retain employees other than to pay them ever higher salaries. Competing for employees based on having the highest wages is little different than competing for customers based on having the lowest prices. While there may be short-term anomalies, companies that focus long-term on both are likely to end up with unhappy customers, unhappy employees, and no money. A company culture that provides non-monetary value to both employees and customers has that much more the financial advantage over its competitors. 
But as I mentioned, there’s a larger reason for going all-in on customer service that goes beyond financial incentives. It’s simply this–it makes me happy to do so. I’ve been an entrepreneur long enough to learn that life is too short to obsess over financial success, and that success can prove temporary and elusive. But focusing on customer service, or service generally, brings instant gratification on a more meaningful level. My company is nowhere near a perfect record on this front. We’re just getting started. But we’re already seeing the payoff from the small steps we’ve taken, both in terms of team satisfaction as well as from an accounting perspective. 
What companies do you feel have the best customer service? How has focusing on customer service changed your business? 
Joshua Steimle is the CEO of MWI, a digital marketing agency with offices in the U.S. and Hong Kong.