Google Enterprise Rebrands as Google for Work Google Enterprise Rebrands as Google for Work Image:  Google

Google wants companies to know its business offerings, like Google Apps, are for organizations of all sizes, not just large companies. 
Google Enterprise, the company's platform for providing Gmail, Drive, and other apps to businesses, is being rebranded as Google for Work.

The new simplified name encompasses all the products and services Google offers businesses, including Google Apps (which includes Drive and Gmail), Android, Chromebooks and Maps. Each product will be rebranded with the "for Work" handle (e.g Google Maps for Work).
"We never set out to create a traditional 'enterprise' business — we wanted to create a new way of doing work," wrote Eric Schmidt, Google's executive chairman, in a blog post. "So the time has come for our name to catch up with our ambition. As of today, what was called Google Enterprise is now, simply, Google for Work."
Though Google says more than 60% of Fortune 500 companies actively use Google's business products, the new name is more reflective of the range of organizations that rely on Google services, which is not limited to large enterprise companies, said Amit Singh, president of Google for Work.
"The Google brands that are out there are so strong that bringing them to work as a concept is very easy to explain to people," said Singh. "Google for Work better reflects the new market environment we're all working in."
Google for Work's website has already launched and the change will be rolling out to the company's products Tuesday.
Though users won't see immediate changes beyond the new name, Google says the change is more than just a rebrand— it's part of a broader effort to bring more people into Google's services. "What we're talking about here is more than just a name change, it's a mindset shift," said Google's Rajen Sheth, who head up Chromebooks and Android for Google for Work. "This a second act of our technologies for work."
 
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.