5 U.S. Cities Where Uber Is Unwelcome but Wants Your Taxi Business 5 U.S. Cities Where Uber Is Unwelcome but Wants Your Taxi Business 
         
        
 
 
Founded just five years ago, the San Francisco-based company is already in 205 cities in 45 countries, with the company expanding into 24 markets just last week. The company says it has millions of users, but would not provide an exact number to TheStreet. However, Uber is up against strong resistance from taxi drivers in various cities across the world who have been in an uproar at the disruptive company, mainly for not being beholden to stringent regulations that other taxi drivers are required to follow. A number of cities, from Seattle to London have held protests against the company. 
 
  
  

 
"Uber will carefully review the content of the preliminary decision of the Frankfurt Regional Court, and will appeal this decision and vigorously defend the claim that has been filed by Taxi Deutschland," Uber responded in a blog post on Tuesday. In the meantime, "Uber will continue its operations - and will continue to offer its services via its app - throughout Germany."
 
Last week Illinois Governor Pat Quinn vetoed legislation, House Bill 4075, dubbed the "Uber bill" and a related measure under House Bill 5331 that would have imposed statewide regulations on commercial ridesharing and preventing local governments from adopting rules to fit their communities. "I am vetoing this legislation because it would have mandated a one-size-fits-all approach to a service that is best regulated at the local level," Gov. Quinn said in an Aug. 25 statement.
 

 
The company sees itself as a technology company not a transportation company. "We assess a number of factors before entering a market, including existing regulations and user demand. If the laws haven't conceived of Uber's model, we'll reach out to policymakers about the significant demand in their city and educate them on this new paradigm," Uber spokeswoman Natalia Montalvo wrote in an email to TheStreet on Tuesday.
 

 
 
 
Uber is trying to get off the ground in Little Rock, but it is currently prohibited there. The city is gearing up for a debate on the ride-sharing service, with varying positions by Little Rock's board of directors on whether to allow the service in the city, according to the Arkansas Times.
 
Uber has apparently "suggested revisions" to the city's code to allow it to operate, the Aug. 20 article said. A follow up article by the Arkansas Times sheds light on a fact sheet that Uber submitted to the city in hopes of persuading Little Rock.
 
"We're in the really early stages of the process with them," said Luis Gonzalez, communications and market manager for the City of Little Rock, who confirmed to TheStreet that currently the service is not allowed there.
 

 



 
 
 
The glittering city of Las Vegas is still without an Uber outlet, while other smaller cities Uber away. According to Uber's Twitter feed, @Uber_Vegas, the state's outdated regulations are the cause of the absence.
 
 

@shanereiser, wish we could bring safe stylish rides to LV but state won't allow. Hope lawmakers give voters what they want #VegasNeedsUber

 &mdash; Uber Vegas (@Uber_Vegas) March 17, 2014
 
 

Nevada's taxi and limousine regulations are among the strictest in the nation, according to the Las Vegas Sun.


 
 
 
Uber has also set its sights on Portland, Ore., but so far, the city's makes it illegal for Uber to operate there. Portland has started to look at ways to modernize its tax regulations for the sharing economy, according to a July 30 article from The Oregonian.
 Portland Bureau of Transportation, which took over responsibility for rideshare regulations on July 1, does not currently have a timeframe for the amended regulations. 


 
 
 

 
Uber announced on its blog on August 6 that it was uberX would be available in Richmond, Va.
 
Two more cities in Virginia - Charlottesville and Blacksburg - were added as part of last week's Uber launch in an additional 24 markets.

 
 
 
While Uber isn't currently prohibited in Cambridge, the city is trying to figure out how to regulate it. Cambridge's board of License Commissioners held a public hearing on June 17 to discuss draft regulations for smartphone technology, which mainly includes concerns about public safety - driver background checks, regular vehicle inspections and adequate insurance.
 
The city stated in a press release that while it "has no intention of stifling innovation or removing transportation options," it does "have an obligation to ensure that transportation industries falling under their regulatory authority provide safe and accountable service to the public."
 
Final rules have not been completed yet. "We're still kind of looking at our next steps," Andrea Jackson, chairwoman of the Cambridge License Commission, told TheStreet on Tuesday, who added that there should be an update in the next month or two.
 

--Written by Laurie Kulikowski in New York. 

 

Follow @LKulikowski  



       








 








  
