Euro Continues Descent Ahead of ECB Meeting Euro Continues Descent Ahead of ECB Meeting The euro has fallen to a one-year low against the dollar as Europe's single currency remains under pressure ahead of this week's policy meeting of the European Central Bank.In trading Tuesday, the euro fell to $1.3115, its lowest level since the $1.3103 it struck on Sept. 6, 2013.The bank, which oversees monetary policy for the 18 European Union countries that use the euro, is under pressure to announce more monetary stimulus following its meeting on Thursday to boost the ailing eurozone economy and try to get inflation back up towards target.Though the existential crisis surrounding the eurozone has diminished over the past couple of years following the pledge by ECB President Mario Draghi to do "whatever it takes" to save the euro, the economic recovery has been muted.In fact, in the second quarter of this year, the recovery ground to a halt as the eurozone recorded zero growth largely as a result of economic problems in large economies such as Italy and France. With the momentum draining away, the eurozone faces the unappetizing prospect of an unprecedented triple-dip recession.Further weighing on the outlook has been a sharp fall in inflation. In August, prices were only 0.3 percent higher than the year before, way down on the ECB's target of just below 2 percent. The worry is that inflation may become deflation — a debilitating bout of falling prices that can choke growth as consumers delay spending in the hope of bargains down the line and businesses fail to innovate.That's why the ECB is under pressure to do more than it already has. In June, it cut its main interest rate to a record low of 0.15 percent. Draghi has also said some sort of monetary stimulus —quantitative easing, or QE, as it is often called — is possible. Such a program would inject new money into the economy in the hope of lowering market interest rates."It's a close call," said Gary Jenkins, chief credit strategist at LNG Capital. "If they do not announce QE then I expect Draghi to be aggressively dovish. He will make it clear that it is within their mandate and could be unleashed at any time."The prospect of more euros being created as part of any such program has been one of the main reasons why the currency has been in retreat for the past few months. In early summer, the currency was knocking on the $1.40 door.The fall has been a boon to policymakers across Europe as well as to the region's exporters. A falling currency can spur inflation by making imports more expensive — potentially nudging up inflation, to the ECB's relief — and it can boost growth by making euro-denominated exports cheaper in the international marketplace.Some analysts cautioned about the impact of a failure by the ECB to act on Thursday, especially as figures suggest investors are short the euro in near-record amounts. Those trades could easily be unwound if Draghi and the ECB's governing council decide to stay pat."There is a clear risk that this eagerly-awaited meeting could have rather untoward consequences if it does not go to the euro bears' plan," said Neil Mellor, a senior currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon.