Red Sox Series Least Expensive Yankees Tickets For Remainder Of Season Red Sox Series Least Expensive Yankees Tickets For Remainder Of Season Games between the New York Yankees and Boston Red Sox are among the most anticipated during the baseball season. The teams not only belong to two of the biggest sports markets in the country, but also have a long history as one of the biggest rivalries, not just in baseball, but all sports . This week the two have their final series in Yankee Stadium of the season, but the price of Yankees tickets on the secondary market are actually relatively low for the three-game affair. 
Both the Yankees and Red Sox were the most expensive teams in the league on the secondary market for a majority of the season. Both had season averages well over $100 despite posting subpar records to start the year. Even as the two teams played mediocre baseball throughout the season, there was still a premium for ticket prices whenever these two teams played.
	
								 
Now the Red Sox are at the bottom of the AL East with a 60-77 record and the Yankees are 8.5 games out of the division lead, despite a 70-65 record. This week’s series will be far from the September battles with the division on the line from years past. In fact, the three games in this series are the three cheapest home games remaining on the Yankees schedule. The most expensive game of the series is $76.35, and the combined average price for the series is just under $70. The next cheapest game remaining for the Yankees is against the Tampa Bay Rays, and that game has an $83.81 average on the secondary market. 

								
										 
That’s not too shocking with September beginning and neither team looking like a threat for the playoffs. The Yankees were close to a playoff spot before the end of August, but a tough week has dropped them 4.5 games out of the second wild card spot. Even if they continue to play well, they will have to jump the Cleveland Indians and Seattle Mariners in the standings, in addition to whoever holds the second wild card spot between the Detroit Tigers and Kansas City Royals. 
However, the further the Yankees fall out of the playoff race, the higher the price becomes for Yankees tickets towards the end of the season. That’s currently the case for Red Sox tickets for the final games of the season against the Yankees at Fenway Park. The final game of the regular season at Fenway Park has an average price of $460.14, the second most expensive game in baseball for the remainder of the season. If the standings hold, that would be Derek Jeter’s final career game. 
The most expensive game for the regular season comes for the season finale at Yankee Stadium against the Baltimore Orioles on September 25. Yankees vs Orioles tickets for that game have an average price of $753.58 and a get-in price of $236.
										
										 
In a time of final Jeter milestones, it is still surprising his last games against the Red Sox at Yankee Stadium do not have the same type of secondary market premium. While the series finale is the most expensive of the three games, it’s still well below the historical norm for a Yankees-Red Sox series.