Miller Lite Brings Back Its White Label, Possibly Also Its Mojo Miller Lite Brings Back Its White Label, Possibly Also Its Mojo 
                
                     Courtesy MillerCoorsMiller Lite new bottleThe return of Miller Lite’s original white can design was supposed to be&nbsp;a three-month novelty with an&nbsp;Anchorman 2&nbsp;tie-in. It replaced the blue cans that have been in beer aisles since 2001, and an unexpected thing happened—Miller Lite sales immediately increased in the U.S. Encouraged,&nbsp;MillerCoors made the white cans permanent. Now bottles and tap handles will get the white label treatment too.
                
            
            
                 
This is not quite a Hail Mary—Miller Lite is still the No. 4 light beer in the U.S.—but the brand, which is owned by &nbsp;SABMiller-Molson Coors,&nbsp;needs the help. The brand’s share of the North American beer market has been dwindling since the recession; it’s now down to 6.2 percent from 7.9 percent in 2005, according to&nbsp;Euromonitor International. 
Aside from standing out on shelves, the new design has the effect of making people think they’re not buying the same old Miller Lite (it is in fact exactly the same old Miller Lite). “A lot of people said, ‘I think the beer even tastes better,’” says Ryan Reis, senior director of the Miller Family of Brands. 
The problem, as he explains it, was that light beers often are blue, particularly Bud Light, America’s best selling beer. MillerCoors’ marketers decided a white can would set it apart. And although they had considered tinkering with the original white can, they ended up just bringing it back as a nod to the 39-year-old brand’s history. Perhaps more importantly, the retro design was the favorite in tests with a panel of men ages 21 to 29, Miller Lite’s core demographic. 
Courtesy MillerCoorsMiller Lite new bottle 
Miller Lite seems to be putting a lot of faith in the power of a label change. After the initial white can bump, sales in the U.S. slipped again: for the 12 months ending Aug. 10 sales are down 1 percent from last year, according to IRI, a Chicago-based market research firm.