Crisis with Russia: 5 Steps the U.S. and Allies Must Take Now Crisis with Russia: 5 Steps the U.S. and Allies Must Take Now A new threat to world peace has awakened the international community as rising tensions with Russia push Western leaders to act. After slowly increasing his power during the last decade, Vladimir Putin threatens to destabilize nation states, plunging Europe back into confrontation through a shooting war with Ukraine approximately one hundred years to the day of the start of World War I. 
While some are aghast at his actions, they come as no surprise to Kremlin watchers. Putin’s behavior is far from brash, and his invasion of Ukraine following months of testing, probing, and bullying should come as nothing short of predictable.&nbsp; Putin is a master strategist, and his rise to power and subsequent consolidation of power within the Russian Federation is confirmation of his strategy.
	
								 
 
Putin views the West as reluctant, weak, and distracted.&nbsp; While all of this may be true, Putin makes the same classic miscalculation many dictators and despots have made time and time again.&nbsp; The West is, in fact, abysmal in responding quickly; but once provoked, respond it will.
								
										 
Despite all of the bravado, Russians are split regarding Putin’s pursuits. While his takeover of Crimea (lets not forget that one) was supported by over 70% of the population, his foray into Ukraine has fared far worse. According to the BBC, only 40% of Russians approve of Putin’s actions, a number likely to weaken as Russian casualties rise. 
The West’s initial round of sanctions following his Crimean foray, magnified by the aftermath of the Malaysian Airlines attack, are taking their toll on the Russian economy.&nbsp; For example, available monetary funding has all but dried up, and the economy is precariously weak.&nbsp; Additional sanctions and monetary policies would bring its economy to a crashing halt. Putin is confident, but he is certainly not invincible, and the collapse of the Russian economy is in his hands. 
The downside his conduct, of course, cannot be overlooked.&nbsp; A man who has nothing to lose becomes unpredictable, and Putin’s reality is already skewed.&nbsp; Nevertheless, the West simply cannot afford to replay a Chamberlin-type operation in the face of such outright aggression.&nbsp; Just as Germany showed Chamberlin, appeasement leads only to further conflict. 
In light of the circumstances surrounding the conflict between Russia and the international community, the United States and Allies must act immediately with the following five steps.
										
										 
First, the West must demand the immediate cessation of hostilities by Russian troops and pro-Russian separatists, along with the withdrawal of all Russian troops from Ukraine within 72 Hours. 
Second, should Putin refuse to act in accordance with internationally accepted norms within this timeframe, the West must move to isolate the Russian economy by cutting off its flow of money.&nbsp; Simply put, the Russian economy obtains approximately 50% of its funding from oil and gas sales.&nbsp; Implementing multilateral sanctions, which leave no loopholes, will choke off access to badly needed capital practically overnight. 
Third, the West must also move to suspend commercial cooperation, restrict visa access to Russians traveling abroad, and freeze Putin’s personal assets. 
Fourth, on the defense side, NATO countries must fully embrace spending commitments for defensive actions and integrate newer members into an advanced command and control structure. 
Fifth, and more immediately, this defensive alliance must continue to show unified resolve, forward deploy forces, and call for its nuclear members to increase deterrent patrols. 
While Putin may not care what the world thinks about him, he desires to see Russia as a re-invigorated world power.&nbsp; An economy in ruins makes any such plan unattainable, and just as the Russian people cast off the chains of communism, so too will they rise up to cast off the chains of a leader bent on destroying modern Russia.  
 
 Brigham A. McCown is an attorney and public policy expert. With nearly three decades of combined public service, Mr. McCown formerly headed a federal agency and served as a key federal regulator over the energy and transportation industries. He is also a retired Naval Aviator and an avid baseball fan who calls it as he sees it, right down the middle. &nbsp;To learn more, visit him on&nbsp;National Journal,&nbsp;Huffington Post, and&nbsp;Fuel Fix&nbsp;or follow him on&nbsp;Twitter&nbsp;and&nbsp;Facebook. 
