Tech Startup Gigit Makes Booking a Band A Breeze Tech Startup Gigit Makes Booking a Band A Breeze When companies are planning events and they want live music, there is often a major misunderstanding of what a performance will cost and what the company will get for that. There certainly is a lot of mystery around what certain artists earn and how to even go about finding them, and if you’re not in the know, it can be hard to get an event off the ground. 
“I’ve seen so many planners attempt to book A-list artists like Macklemore or Beyonc&eacute;&nbsp;with their $10,000 budgets and think that it’s completely plausible to lock down the artist due to their brand or ‘social reach.’” Gaan said about why she decided to create the startup. For the record, Macklemore and Ryan Lewis pull in at least $300,000 for a private event.
	
								 
 
 That sort of confusion (and so much more) led Tegan Monique Gaan to found Gigit, a site that caters to anyone looking to be involved in live music. The website has different pages, depending on what you’re looking for.
								
										 
Gigit allows all parties involved in booking a band or artist to an event to come together and work efficiently. Event planners of all sizes can find what they are looking for, which can vary widely when you think of what can constitute as an “event planner”. Everyone from wedding planners and marketing/event people planning an office Christmas party to someone looking for a violin player for a romantic evening or an ambitious party host who wants a band for their living room have a space on the site, opening it up to potentially thousands of users. 
On the other side of things, bands can search a listing of paid gigs that contains everything from house parties to big festivals, sometimes involving their managers, other times not. 
&nbsp;Most interestingly for businesses, Gigit has a section specifically devoted to Brands looking to add a trending artist to their campaign in ways other than just playing live music. What the marketing message of that campaign is exactly can be up to the Brand, but the site helps identify artists who are in town or at a particular festival in order to hire that band to engage with in some capacity. Gigit had a successful run of this ecosystem at SXSW this year helping artists make money while they were already at the festival playing free shows. The marketing message is easily created in Gigit’s Engagement Voting Page tool, which allows fans and future possible attendees to decide what acts they want to see at a certain brand’s event. No longer will a marketing or event team have to guess what bands are cool and flippantly hope they got it right. 
While Gaan certainly wanted to help bands find more work, Gigit is a business, and it does need to make a profit. For each booking, the company adds 20% on top of the artist’s fee, and then also collects 5% from the band itself. Considering even smaller events can cost an event host $1,000, that’s not a bad profit for Gigit. While the company doesn’t charge bands to use the site, Gaan says she has had plenty of artists openly offer to give Gigit a percentage of their take.
										
										 
Currently, there are quite a few well known acts participating, such as English rock band The 1975, rapper/actor Childish Gambino, and pop singer Betty Who. While the biggest names in music aren’t yet using the site (it’s doubtful Adele will ever need help finding a gig), Gigit is growing rapidly, with plans for everything from partnerships with big brands to a growing staff and much more on the horizon.