Global Entry and Nexus Passes: What You Need to Know to Keep Them Valid Global Entry and Nexus Passes: What You Need to Know to Keep Them Valid There are two programs that allow expedited entry into the United States and Canada. One is called&nbsp;Global Entry&nbsp;and the other is&nbsp;Nexus. 
Once issued, these passes are good for five years and allow U.S. and Canadian citizens to bypass immigration checks at our borders and those of Canada if they pass a detailed background investigation and personal interview. Once cleared, they are considered as trusted travelers just like&nbsp;TSA PreCheck.
	
								 
The Global Entry program is being expanded to several countries including&nbsp;Australia&nbsp;and Japan, with more to be added in the future, for hassle-free movement through immigration. The cost for Global Entry is $100, and $50 for Nexus. Originally these programs were managed by their respective border protection agencies and were totally separate, but now they have in part been combined but with some confusion. 
There are two issues that all travelers who subscribe to these programs need to be aware of: issuance of new passports during the validity of your Nexus or Global Entry passes, and what you have to do in order to take advantage of both Nexus and Global Entry for one registration and fee.
								
										 
Global Entry will allow you to enter the U.S. at virtually all international gateway United States airports and also where there is&nbsp;CBP immigration clearance&nbsp;in foreign countries, most notably Canada. In Toronto, for example, you can avoid long waits to clear into the U.S. by identifying yourself to a Global Entry Kiosk with your fingerprints and passport. A receipt with your photograph is printed within seconds which allows you to clear customs when you check your luggage&nbsp;before&nbsp;leaving Canada. This obviates the need for immigration at your destination airport. 
If you are registered into the Nexus program, your pass will allow you to cross the Canadian or U.S. border just as if you had been registered into Global Entry. Nexus is&nbsp;administered by Canada&nbsp;and has separate clearance criteria. However, the result is the same as Global Entry: expedited passage. 
If you are a member of Nexus you now have Global Entry privileges just as if you had registered in the U.S. for that CBP program. A payment of one fee to Canada will entitle you to benefits of&nbsp;both&nbsp;systems, however the converse is&nbsp;not&nbsp;true. When you first apply for Nexus, your U.S. passport is registered into the Canadian system at the time of your personal interview with a Canadian immigration officer at one of their border entry points. Here is the problem: the Canadian and American computer systems are not completely sharing passport information with each other so that If, during the five year period of validity of your Nexus pass you obtain a&nbsp;new U.S. passport, the Canadian system will not receive the updated data. That means there will be a mismatch between the number on your passport and in the system and you will be denied entry through one of the kiosks. 
Unfortunately, neither the U.S. nor Canadian agencies have been properly briefed on this issue to be able to advise system users correctly about &nbsp;the resulting problems of invalidation of your Nexus or Global Entry pass when you try to enter either Canada or the U.S. While you can update your new passport information on the U.S.&nbsp;Global On-Line Enrollment System&nbsp;(GOES site) for your Global Entry pass, that data is not transmitted to Canada if you also are a member of Nexus.
										
										 
In 2010 I was issued my Global Entry pass which was set to expire in January 2015. In February 2012, I met with Canadian immigration at Port Huron, Michigan to be interviewed for their Nexus program because only their pass would allow entry into Canada; Global Entry only works for entry into the U.S. &nbsp;If you often travel between Canada and the U.S. as I do, Nexus is a must especially if you drive because there are expedited lanes only for Nexus pass holders which can avoid long lines. The Nexus RFID cards work the same as the toll road transponders that eliminate the requirement to stop at toll booths. 
In 2013 I renewed my U.S. passport so its number was not in either the Global Entry or Nexus systems. Updating your U.S. information is easy through the GOES site. In one minute, your new number is added to your record so now the information matches when your passport is scanned upon entry into the U.S. 
Because my Global Entry pass would expire in January 2015, last June I went online to determine the renewal procedure and if I needed to file a new application, or whether there was an expedited procedure to extend its validity date for another five years. It was unclear because Nexus now incorporated Global Entry, which means you can enter the U.S. under the auspices of Nexus without having a separate valid Global Entry pass. If you think this is all very confusing, wait until you try to figure it out by speaking with a CBP representative. 
I did not want to run the risk of my Global Entry pass expiring, so I called CBP to determine, as a Nexus member, if I even needed to renew Global Entry (because my Nexus pass was good until 2018), and whether I needed to show up in Canada for them to register my new passport number. I had six months to renew my Global Entry but I would be out of the U.S. most of that time so I thought I would get it done early, especially if there was the need for a new application and interview for Global Entry. 
The questions I asked of the first CBP representative were simple: do I need to reapply on-line and fill out the entire background investigation form, from the beginning? And the follow-up I asked: because Global Entry and Nexus programs are now linked together, what do I have to renew, and when? I thought these were simple questions but I received various answers from three CBP agents and one Canadian agent. Everybody told a different story and only one was right. Because of what I found out I had to travel again to a border crossing for a Canadian agent to scan my new passport into their system. You would think that the United States and Canada would be able to share this information so U.S. citizens do not have to waste time and money to report to a Canadian border facility simply for them to enter a new passport number, but as it presently stands, they do. 
So, here are the present rules:  
 
 If you&nbsp;only&nbsp;have Global Entry it will not work for travel&nbsp;into&nbsp;Canada; 
 If you only have Nexus, you can travel into either the U.S. or Canada for one fee, but you will have to be interviewed by both governments and fill out applications for each immigration authority; 
 If you registered for Global Entry and then registered for Nexus later, you can let your Global Entry pass expire&nbsp;until your Nexus pass is no longer valid. You can then reapply for Nexus, with full Global Entry privileges; 
 If you renew your passport during the validity terms of either your Global Entry or Nexus, you must enter the new number into both systems. You can do this on-line for Global Entry, but at present you must present your passport in person to a Canadian official; 
 If you do not update the Canadian Nexus system with a new passport number, neither Global Entry nor Nexus will work at the kiosk if you enter the U.S. with your Nexus pass. Notwithstanding what CBP tells you, unless you have Canadian immigration scan your new passport, it is not in their system. While America may believe that Canada receives the information from the GOES site when you update your passport information there, it is not shared with Canada, according to Canadian officials that I interviewed; 
 When you renew either program, you will have to submit an entirely new application and do a new interview; 
 Nexus is changing to a fingerprint recognition system rather than iris code scan, so you will have to report to a Canadian registration point for them to take a full ten-finger scan to comply with U.S. requirements; 
 Nexus is half the price of Global Entry and will give you the benefits of both programs, so you do not need to spend the money for both passes.