Revenge of the Nerds: Athletic Scholarships for Video Gamers Revenge of the Nerds: Athletic Scholarships for Video Gamers By: Christopher Denhart 
Today’s Wall Street Journal features a true “revenge of the nerds” story.&nbsp; Robert Morris, a small, private, liberal arts college in Chicago, Ill., now has a varsity video game team that competes in the game League of Legends. The piece chronicles an incoming student from his tryout through the award of a 25 percent (or about $6,000 yearly) tuition scholarship.
	
								 
Colleges continue to do more things to make them stand out, and attract students to apply. Robert Morris hopes to add video game championships (which have a much larger audience than you might expect) to its “claim to fame” list.&nbsp; This e-sport joins the list of obscurities at RMU including a varsity men’s and women’s bowling team, and varsity women’s dance. 
This reminds us of the athletic scholarships available for chess at schools like Texas Tech and Webster University. Susan Polgar, the world champion and Grandmaster that head coached Texas Tech from 2007 to 2012, had players that captured 15 national, 2 state and 2 regional titles in four years. Now she is making a cool $250,000 salary to coach at Webster University (Ranked #1).
								
										 
 
In the age of the multi-million dollar football or basketball coach, these alternatives are a drop in the bucket, but with more than 700 varsity athletes on some form of tuition scholarships, universities like Robert Morris may struggle to keep college affordable to the masses. CCAP has long discussed the costs of collegiate athletics, pointing out that many times athletic expenses are shouldered by the students by way of mandatory fees. In fact, in the Mountain West Conference, every student pays nearly $1,200 per year to subsidize the athletics budget. 
These programs are not sustainable, and while unique athletic programs can attract interest and student applications (WSJ reports 2,200 inquiries to RMU regarding the team within 48 hours of it hitting the game’s website) these programs can exacerbate an existing problem. However, if these low cost nerdy sports were to replace the expensive sports, we could see some real cost cutting happening. 
If any schools are looking for the next great sport to pique student interest, might we suggest beer pong? College students are drinking beer anyway. Let’s stop the alcohol inquisition on campuses and capitalize on the inevitable. &nbsp; Why not formalize it into a sport, and have major beer distributors like Anheuser Busch or the Miller Brewing Company sponsor the final four hops challenge? &nbsp;If we designate drivers to and from the competitions and have teams of 21 year olds and above what’s the worst that could happen? Students are already financing their bar tabs with student loans, we might as well rile up some school spirit in the process.
										
										 
Beer Pong, which now has its own “world series” and $65,000 prize, or not, it will be fun to see more and more nerds claim the title of “student-athlete” over the fitness junkies and body builders found in collegiate gyms 8 days per week as this explosion of new varsity sports programs continues. 
Christopher Denhart is the administrative director of the Center for College Affordability and Productivity.