War Over Export-Import Bank Has No Easy Answers War Over Export-Import Bank Has No Easy Answers 
		Post written by
		Vinay Bhaskara
		
	

								
After years of operating under relative anonymity, the Export-Import Bank of the United States is under fire. The American export credit agency (ECA) has supported purchases of Boeing and other aircraft made in the United States for decades, but it has recently come under fire from an unorthodox coalition composed of libertarians, anti-business progressives, US airlines and airline employee unions. 
Traditionally, The Export-Import Bank functioned primarily as a tool to sell American-made industrial products and capital goods to businesses and governments from countries with limited or no access to capital. An airline from say Mali (this is a hypothetical scenario), that wanted to buy Boeing 737s would be quoted exorbitant interest rates for a loan by commercial banks given the instability of that nation, but the Export Import Bank could loan them the money at a risk premium benchmarked to prevailing commercial rates. While this was initially meant mostly as a last resort avenue of funding, for both Boeing and Airbus, ECA-backed purchases have been common practice. Between 2008 and 2013, 26% of large commercial aircraft were backed by Export Import Bank funding.
	
								 
The political players noted above oppose the Export-Import Bank for fundamental reasons tied to cronyism or an idea of “corporate welfare,” but the US airline industry players hold a more nuanced view. They want the Export-Import Bank to stop financing widebody aircraft purchases, especially those used directly to compete against US carriers on routes to North America. 
The simple story of the Export-Import Bank only guaranteeing purchases for businesses without access to adequate capital doesn’t hold up under scrutiny. Between 2004 and 2013, airlines from the UAE, India, and South Korea each received more than $3 billion in Export Import authorizations, while airlines from Hong Kong, Chile, China, Ethiopia, Luxembourg (freighters), and Turkey all received $1.5-3 billion in authorizations 2004-2013. With the exception of Ethiopia, none of the countries on that list would have suffered constrained access to capital. Emirates, LAN, Turkish Airlines, Korean Air and the like would have no trouble finding reasonable commercial financing almost anywhere in the world. Even perennial financial basket case Air India would have been able to find takers given the implicit backing of the Indian government behind it.
								
										 
Of course none of these carriers would have necessarily received terms as favorable as they did from the Export-Import Bank, which gives them a cost advantage relative to a scenario where the Export-Import Bank didn’t exist. The capital costs of operating a long haul flight for carriers with Export-Import financed airplanes are lower than they would be without that financing. So in effect, the US government is subsidizing non-US airlines (in many cases) to compete directly with American carriers on long haul routes. 
There are myriad problems with this setup, ones that should not just be dismissed as sour grapes from airlines unwilling to compete. US airlines operate in an exceedingly competitive marketplace, and unlike Asian and Middle Eastern carriers, they have to deal with excessive regulation, high government taxation, and crumbling infrastructure. Lower capital costs (in theory) should level the playing field against foreign carriers, but they don’t, thanks to the Export-Import Bank. So it’s no surprise that the airlines and their employees are fighting hard against financing of widebody purchases.&nbsp; As Air Line Pilots Association (ALPA) president Captain Lee Moak noted, ” State owned enterprises like Etihad and Emirates are funded by their governments, armed by their governments. That’s tough to compete with… But I can’t change the UAE; I can’t change other governments. What I can do though, is affect US government policy.” 
Of course the Export-Import Bank doesn’t solely affect airlines, which presents a Catch-22 for policy makers. Even as it harms US airlines, the Export-Import Bank undoubtedly enhances Boeing, and American manufacturing as a whole. Imagine for a second that Export-Import financing of widebody aircraft was eliminated (at least future guarantees). But if Europe’s corresponding ECAs didn’t follow suit, all of a sudden, Airbus’ A330neo, A350, and A380 would have an advantage over the Boeing 747-8i, 777X, and 787. Sure Boeing could counter by discounting its aircraft substantially or offering in house financial incentives as it did for American Airlines in 2011, but both moves would reduce Boeing’s profit margin, thus decreasing the value of US exports, and expanding both the trade deficit and the current account deficit. 
Some will suggest that the Export-Import Bank and European ECAs extend their informal agreement not to offer financing to airlines in the US or EU to include all widebody purchases. In the short run, that should be feasible given the comfortable duopoly that Boeing and Airbus hold. In the long run, with Chinese and Asian ambitions, that duopoly may be interrupted. And even in the short run, marginal customers might be pushed into the more than willing arms of Russian manufacturers, whose government is more than willing to provide financing. And in any case, the Europeans do not view ECAs with anywhere near as much skepticism as Americans do. So the most realistic answer is that the Aircraft Sector Understandings (ASUs) that govern ECA financing will continue to be revised, perhaps to make the requirements for receiving such financing more stringent. And all of this assumes that a hypothetical Republican-led Congress (if the party re-takes the Senate in this November’s midterm elections) chooses to re-authorize the Export-Import Bank at all. If they choose not to, then this analysis becomes irrelevant, and Boeing will be dealt a blow in its ability to compete with.
										
										 
Contact the author at vinay.bhaskara@airchive.com.&nbsp;Follow on Twitter&nbsp;@Airchive.