The Most Crucial Skills For Success Remain Dormant The Most Crucial Skills For Success Remain Dormant As a practicing thought leader who speaks daily with, consults with and trains Fortune 500 executives and business leaders, I am often surprised to see how much talent is underutilized and undervalued and how much business growth opportunity remains unseen and therefore not seized.&nbsp; The highly competitive global marketplace is a constant reminder &nbsp;that the old ways of doing things are no longer as relevant as they once where – and that it’s time for leaders to not only reinvent themselves but to &nbsp;enable others to do the same. 
Opportunity is everywhere, but few have eyes to see it.
	
								 
 . &nbsp;The unwillingness of executives to change because they are satisfied with the ways things are – even when their corporate strategy is more substitution than evolution – is a sign of leadership solving for the wrong things and becoming more vulnerable to unexpected outcomes. &nbsp;(Just ask executives at Kodak, Blockbuster or Blackberry). 
When executives are solving for the wrong issues and missing opportunities in the process, it’s difficult to create a business strategy for change that supports evolution – especially amongst employees who must endure leaders who are not touching the business enough to effectively assess the required skill-sets, capabilities, resources and relationships to lead the reinvention of the organization. &nbsp;When this happens, confusion between leaders and employees bubbles to the surface; silos and hidden agendas form stronger and a lack of clarity and alignment amongst the leadership team &nbsp;is revealed.
								
										 
It’s this type of scenario that frustrates many employees. In fact, if you were to ask employees the percentage of time they spend on only the originally assigned job description/responsibilities they were hired to perform (assuming no formal change in their current role), you would find that on-average it is less than 50% (per studies conducted by my organization). In other words, the lack of strategic focus by executives, unforeseen competitive pressures, the need to implement government enforced compliance and regulations, solving for the wrong problems which leads to training in the wrong skills and/or hiring the wrong people (and subsequently not being able to retain top talent), amongst other things, &nbsp;have led to many organizations operating inefficiently and irresponsibly — all the while creating tension points with their employees, clients and consumers. 
So what are the required skill-sets for leadership success in today’s marketplace, where renewal and reinvention have become the new normal? &nbsp;What are the skills that will open the eyes of not just a select few, but rather awaken an entire organization to work together to solve for the right issues and identify the right opportunities – whether large or small – in order to create and sustain momentum for the business, employees, brands and clients that they serve? 
Here are three required skill-sets that will not only make you more relevant as you awaken them from dormancy – but also more successful and significant as you unleash your talent and the full potential of others. 
1.&nbsp; Change Management
										
										 
Everyone needs to be a change agent, regardless of hierarchy or rank.&nbsp; Leaders and employees must expect more from each other. &nbsp;They should all be expected to think differently, be forward thinking, challenge the status quo and be potent pioneers. We live in a world of business where the ground rules for success are changing frequently. &nbsp;Our workforce can no longer wait around for those in higher authority to demand change; everyone must activate their full potential and that of others – well before circumstances force their hand. 
To be certain that you never allow your change management skills to lie dormant, you must think like an immigrant. In 2013, New York Times columnist Tom Friedman shared five ways to succeed in life and work. &nbsp;Number one was, “Every day in every way, think like an immigrant. You better figure out what’s going on in this world and you better pursue it with more rigor and energy than ever. Immigrants are paranoid optimists and always stay hungry.” 
Learn more about how to adopt an immigrant mindset to advance your career or business. 
2.&nbsp; Opportunity Mastery 
Leaders that have trouble knowing what to exactly solve for in their business have difficulty managing opportunity in their work. In other words, they don’t have a balanced proficiency of the four opportunity mastery skills (see, sow, grow and share) to build the required momentum to seize opportunities rightly and act accordingly. 
The word opportunity is used so frequently in business that it has become commoditized to the point where most people don’t know how to make the most of those opportunities right in front of them. Presented with an opportunity, they fail to take full advantage of it because they lack the necessary foundation to seize the opportunity rightly. 
Opportunities cannot be fully developed without a strong understanding of your foundation. &nbsp;A strong foundation is built upon your knowledge of the core strengths of your business, how to leverage them and how to solve for weaknesses. 
Many times, we just assume that we have such an understanding and that we know how to manage the opportunities in our business rightly — instead of learning why the four opportunity mastery skills remain dormant. 
3.&nbsp; Thought Leadership 
  In a world where leaders don’t have all of the answers and are in search of those that can open their eyes to a fresh way of doing things, being a thought leader is imperative if you are to maintain any form of relevancy.&nbsp; So awaken yourself to your thought leadership skills that have remained dormant. 
Thought leadership requires a leader to share what they are known for — the hallmark of their personal brand reputation — by being transparent about their best practices and sharing them with their employees and clients. It demands that leaders let go of the past and focus on the present for the betterment of their future and that of their clients. Thought leadership is about introducing new ways of thinking that will reinvent industries and significantly impact business models, the marketplace, employees, consumers and the workplace. 
Thought leadership is about changing the game — and helping others to change it with you. Failure to take that leap of faith — to put yourself into a thought leadership role — is an irresponsibility to yourself, your organization and the people you serve. &nbsp;Why wait for others to discover the next big in your business when you can play a significant role in creating or influencing it through the power of thought leadership. 
Learn more about how thought leadership is the new strategy for corporate growth. 
The most crucial skills and capabilities in an organization often lie dormant because the workplace culture doesn’t recognize the need for them. If leaders don’t value their importance, they won’t take the time to invest in them enough to propel your competencies and know-how forward. Whenever leadership is in a state of complacency, the most crucial skills for success lie dormant and there is no growth. This is when leaders must renew and reinvent themselves and their organizations – by becoming change agents, thought leaders, and masters of opportunity. 
Follow-me on @GlennLlopis.&nbsp;&nbsp; Join our&nbsp;LinkedIn Group. 
&nbsp;