PGA Tour's Partnership With Stryker A Case Study In Sports Sponsorship PGA Tour's Partnership With Stryker A Case Study In Sports Sponsorship For non-traditional brands seeking to create awareness among consumers, the usage of sports sponsorship is often the most proficient vehicle in accomplishing just that. There is no better example of this than that which is provided by Stryker Corporation’s recent announcement that it was becoming the&nbsp;“Official Joint Replacement Product of the PGA TOUR”.&nbsp; While the words joint replacement and professional golf&nbsp;aren’t exactly synonymous, from a marketing perspective there is actually a great deal of synergy between the two. 
Much like other medical device and pharmaceutical companies, Stryker Corporation, was faced with with a perplexing marketing question – How do they bring awareness of their company and its products&nbsp;to the general public while still&nbsp;adhering&nbsp;to&nbsp;the traditional ethics of the he medical industry? After all, it should not be the patient that recommends to the doctor what type of treatment they should be receiving.
	
								 
Stryker started by looking at the simple fact that both hip and knee replacements have nearly doubled in the United States over the last decade. While such operations often bring relief to patients who have suffered from joint paint and increase basic levels of mobility, they also often severely curtail those individuals capacity to participate in sports that put a great deal of pressure on one’s joints. That being said, recent advances in orthopedic technology by Stryker have greatly reduced such post-surgery constraints, allowing those individuals who are equipped with their products to participate in the activities and sports they love. 

 
 PGA Tour veterans Fred Funk and Hal Sutton have both undergone joint replacement procedures with Stryker products.
								
										
 
According to the National Golf Foundation, 83% of golfers are age 40 or over. Much like the market for hip and knee replacement surgeries, 40% of professional golf fans also fall between the ages of 45-64. Moreover,&nbsp;several PGA Tour and Champions Tour members including Frank Funk and Hal Sutton have had joint replacements using Stryker products. 
Sutton, whose 14 PGA TOUR victories include the 1983 PGA Championship and THE PLAYERS Championship in 1983 and 2000, has been a Stryker brand ambassador since last year. In 2012, at age 54, after speaking with his doctor and learning about the differences in hip replacements, Sutton made the decision to undergo a total hip replacement and received Stryker’s&nbsp;Mobile&nbsp;Bearing Hip™. One year later, he received a matching Stryker&nbsp;Mobile&nbsp;Bearing Hip on the right side. 
Funk, a Stryker brand ambassador since 2011, is one of the most recognizable names and personalities in professional golf. During his career, Funk has won eight titles on the PGA TOUR, including THE PLAYERS Championship 2005, and six titles on the Champions Tour, including the 2009 U.S. Senior Open. Funk underwent total knee replacement in November 2009 and received Stryker’s GetAroundKnee. He won the Regions Tradition the following season, becoming the first player ever to win a PGA TOUR-sanctioned event after total knee replacement surgery. 
Considering the significant likelihood that a &nbsp;number of individuals who either follow professional golf or play the game themselves will one day need joint replacement surgery, and one can begin to see why a partnership between Stryker and the PGA is a near perfect match.
										
										 
“Our goals for this program really center around consumer education and brand awareness.&nbsp; Our relationship with the PGA TOUR allows us to introduce ourselves to the fans of golf – most of which suffer from arthritis and are within the demographic we’re looking to reach. 
Golf fans get to see the Stryker brand in action each week with our ambassadors Fred Funk and Hal Sutton who are walking testimonials to the benefits of total joint replacement.&nbsp; With Stryker front and center on their hats, we wanted to educate fans not only on who Stryker is and what we do, but provide them with information on joint health and let them know there are treatment options out there if hip or knee pain is slowing them down.&nbsp; That conversation needs to start with an orthopedic surgeon. 
That’s why we’re excited about a unique aspect of our PGA TOUR partnership – our on-site join health destination, The Stryker Mobility Zone.&nbsp; Our goal is to provide the thousands of people attending PGA TOUR events with the opportunity to speak with orthopedic surgeons and ask them questions about hip and knee treatment options in a non-intimidating environment,” said Bill Huffnagle, President, Reconstructive, Stryker. 
While Strkyer’s partnership with the PGA is still in its infancy, it has already serves as a valuable lesson for marketers everywhere. Sports sponsorship is a far more complex vehicle for creating brand awareness than more traditional advertising channels like print, digital and television. Yet many brands who spend millions of dollars in the space fail to change their strategy and approach in using sponsorship to catalyze engagement amongst target consumers. Strkyer, on the other hand, has not only found a tremendously synergistic partnership with the PGA, but has also built an activation platform around it that significantly increases the chances of a return-on-investment on their spend. 
Stryker’s partnership with the PGA Tour is unquestionably a sports sponsorship hole-in-one. 
Jason Belzer&nbsp;is Founder of&nbsp;GAME, Inc.&nbsp; and a Professor of Organizational Behavior and Sports Law at&nbsp;Rutgers University. Follow him on Twitter&nbsp;@JasonBelzer.