A Fearful Scimitar: ISIS and Asymmetric Warfare A Fearful Scimitar: ISIS and Asymmetric Warfare By Craig Hatkoff and Rabbi Irwin Kula 
His tan suit attracted as much attention as the substance of the topics being discussed at last week’s impromptu White House press conference. But one comment by President Obama really stood out. Explaining his position on ISIS in Syria, Obama said, “we don’t have a strategy yet.” This comment didn’t sit well with anyone. What the hell do you mean we don’t have a strategy?? President Obama might secretively be engineering a paradigm pivot in our foreign policy.
	
								 
However inartful his choice of words might have been and uncomfortable this admissions made almost everyone feel, upon serious reflection, his honesty in not having a strategy might be the best strategy of all for now. Why do we say this? Perhaps he or his “folks” have watched the rather harrowing ISIS “recruiting video” that is circulating on the Internet:&nbsp;Clanging of the Swords IV (now complete with English subtitles) produced by al-Furquan Media available courtesy of LiveLeaks.com. This 62 minute highly-stylized video artfully chronicles ISIS’s brutal, systematic hunting and killing of Safawi Shia infidels (Maliki supporters and sympathizers) and unrepentant Sunni’s who participated in the Sunni Awakening. 
 
 
  
  Flag of Islamic State of Iraq . (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
								
										
  
 
This video is frequently taken down so you might have to do a little searching but you will &nbsp;find it. We warn you this video is among the most graphic and disturbing you will ever see yet unnervingly and chillingly “compelling”—certainly &nbsp;as a recruitment sizzle reel. Brand management buttressed by social media and fashion have arrived as tools of terrorism. We are not even sure what to make of this video, but for us it provides an unexpected perspective on President Obama’s quandary: What exactly are we supposed to do? 
As he struggles to develop a coherent strategy for confronting ISIS in Syria and beyond, it might serve the President well to re-read Andrew Mack’s 1975 seminal essay on asymmetric warfare,&nbsp;Why Big Nations Lose Small Wars. It seems that since the 1950s in wars and conflicts pitting Davids versus Goliaths, Davids increasingly come up the winner most of the time; the unconventional “weaker” actors beat the conventionally stronger actors not by quality or quantity but by resilience and resolve. With no chance of overpowering the military might and sophistication of their enemy, the weaker actor must rely simply on strategies and tactics that will inevitably break the political will of the superior power. Whether Peloponnesian War, Vietnam, Afghanistan, Mao’s Long March or the American Revolution the big guys don’t fare all that well if history is any proper measure; these seemingly lopsided types of conflicts tend to be empire graveyard makers. 
In asymmetric warfare one of the chief weapons of choice for the weaker actor is terrorism—a simpler, cheaper, more accessible product or service that, it turns out all too often, is good enough to get the job done. Yes, terrorism is a disruptive military innovation that harkens back millennia. Other disruptive military innovations throughout history might include such winners as the stirrup, the longbow, the AK47 and the predator drone all of which have wrought their own versions of terror to the battlefields of civilization. 
Every business student knows about “decision making under conditions of extreme uncertainty” situations peppered with what Donald Rumsfeld correctly, if awkwardly,&nbsp; called the “unknown unknowns.” &nbsp;Clauwitz referred to this variable as the “fog of war.” Such uncertainty challenges even the best decision makers.
										
										 
Here are four questions evoked by this video: 
1. Who exactly are the good guys and who are the bad guys?&nbsp;While surely many innocent people are being murdered (collateral damage) for no reason at all, there seems to be very&nbsp; “good reason” for a lot of the killing. While there is plenty of random brutality there is also systematic targeting—assassinations in the name of&nbsp; justice, revenge or retribution. 
2. Who’s fighting about what?&nbsp;Best as we could figure Muslims are killing Muslims, Sunnis are killing Shiites, Sunnis are killing Sunnis, rebels are killing any Maliki military and government officials. Sunnis are killing Yazidis and Christians, and your general psychopaths are killing anybody. In addition, the killing is driven by so many animosities and differences—tribal, religious, theological, economic and political. 
3. Why are we not being shown the true brutality of what is happening in Syria and Iraq by our mainstream media?&nbsp;Based on watching&nbsp;Clanging of the Swords Part IV,&nbsp;it seems&nbsp;ISIS has been paying close attention to the West’s “best practices” in employing violence in media and entertainment—the use of music, cultural tropes, special effects, cinematography and gaming to engage its audience. They seem to have figured out how to unleash violence’s intoxicating neurochemical cocktail with a mix of Spielberg’s realism in&nbsp;Saving Private Ryan, the psychological immersion of Kathryn Bigelow’s&nbsp;Hurt Locker&nbsp;and the “excitement” of&nbsp;Grand Theft Auto—except it’s all real. Apparently in America it’s okay for us (including our children) to be entertained by unlimited violence, but it’s not okay to see the real violence that could and should influence our policy and decision making. 
4. What real red line does ISIS need to cross before America takes radical action?&nbsp;Rest assured. We all know from American History that when adversaries cross a real red line with us, we will do whatever it takes to defend our interests—whether it is firebombing Dresden (killing 25,000 innocent people) or dropping the bomb (killing 250,000 Japanese) &nbsp;or delivering&nbsp;Shock and Awe&nbsp;to Iraq no matter how many Iraqi civilians are killed. Watching the video we can’t help but want to do something to stop the killing, but if we are honest, in spite of our horror and fears regarding ISIS, perhaps this is not yet our hunt. As brutal and indifferent as it might sound, perhaps it’s worth reflecting upon a quote attributed to Arnaud Amalric, a Catholic abbott and crusader from the early thirteenth century: “Kill them all. God will find his own.” ISIS seems to be doing just that. 
ISIS is currently fighting the “near enemy” namely Muslim infidels in the ersatz Caliphate in-the-making. It might be a big mistake for ISIS to mimic Al Qaeda and attack the U.S.homeland. This would create the unifying resolve and resilience that could lead to an exception to Andrew Mack’s dataset. At some point, this “small war” can turn into a “big war” overnight. 
You can’t find a solution until you have defined the problem. Until we can answer these questions, we’re not even sure what problems&nbsp;we are trying to solve. So maybe, even if it’s not what we want to hear, President Obama might be right. How can we have a strategy for something so inscrutable? 
Perhaps, the only way to win is not to play… for now.