Tencent Buys Minority Stake in Chinese Healthcare Website Tencent Buys Minority Stake in Chinese Healthcare Website In January, Alibaba Group and Yunfeng Capital- a private equity firm co-founded by Alibaba chairman Jack Ma- spent $ 171 million to gain control of Citic 21 CN, a Hong Kong-listed company engaging in software development for drug authentication. Now it is the turn of Alibaba’s top rival Tencent Holdings&nbsp;to invest in China’s healthcare sector as Beijing vowed further reform to improve patient services. 
Tencent has invested $70 million for a minority stake in dxy.cn, a healthcare information sharing website with more than four million registered users – most of them are medical professionals. Tencent seeks to offer the site’s services- including access to drug information and a network of more than two million doctors- on its popular messaging app WeChat.
	
								 
“Tencent has paid very close attention to the healthcare sector. Dxy.cn is the biggest information source for Chinese medical professionals. Tencent can connect them with tens of millions of Internet users,” Tencent President Martin Lau said in a statement. 
The investment comes as China pushes for an overhaul of its healthcare system amid mounting costs, problems at public hospitals and a surge of patients with chronic diseases.
								
										 
Beijing has turned to the private sector to spruce up its overloaded public services. Alibaba is integrating Citic 21 CN’s database to an app that let users verify the authenticity of their drugs by scanning barcodes. The group also seeks to make hospital appointment easier through its online payment service Alipay and cloud computing platform. 
Restrictions on foreign investment have also been loosened. Last week, Beijing allowed foreign companies to own and operate hospitals in the cities of Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai as well as in the provinces of Jiangsu, Fujian, Guangdong and Hainan. The decision followed the State Council’s announcement in May that &nbsp;restrictions on foreign investment in joint-venture hospitals will be gradually eased. 
Pharmaceutical companies could also benefit from the surge of private investment. Dxy.cn, also backed by venture capital firm DCM and Shunwei China Internet Fund chaired by Xiaomi’s Lei Jun, will also levy Tencent’s investment to connect pharmaceutical companies with Chinese doctors to build a “legally compliant and effective channel for academic exchanges,” according to the statement.
										
										 
Such a channel is crucial as probes into British drug maker GlaxoSmithKline revealed that some pharmaceutical multinationals have resorted to systematically bribing Chinese doctors to increase drug sales. Such a strategy is commonplace in China as the country’s underpaid doctors have long relied on prescribing more drugs to boost their income.