The Burger King Deal: What Happens If Your Job Moves Across The Border? The Burger King Deal: What Happens If Your Job Moves Across The Border? The recent merger of Burger King and Tim Hortons spurred a lot of comments about the tax benefits that could result from the company setting up their headquarters in Canada. 
The idea that an American icon like Burger King would consider leaving the United States over tax rates hit a raw nerve in Washington and on Wall Street. You had some saying President Obama’s policies will send Burger King packing, while you had others, including a U.S. Senator, calling for a boycott of the burger giant.
	
								 
While the tax and political implications have been bandied about at length, one issue that hasn’t had much play is immigration. When cross-border companies merge and rumours of a new headquarters fly, employees – especially executives and managers – should start to wonder about their futures. 
NAFTA and Visas
								
										 
The existence of the NAFTA free trade agreement between the United States, Canada and Mexico makes a Canadian location of the Burger King/Tim Hortons headquarters much easier to bring about. One can imagine a constant stream of managers, executives and people of specialized knowledge traveling back and forth in this new arrangement. Getting work visas for them would be critical to the success of the venture. NAFTA makes it possible, but it isn’t always a slam dunk for every employee. 
Among the possible work visas that may be involved will be the treaty trader and investor visas, intra-corporate transferee visas, NAFTA professional visas, after-sales service visas, and temporary work permits. Navigating this maze isn’t easy. You’ll be delighted to hear that this arrangement could result in a field day for lawyers on the north and south sides of the border. 
Challenges 
Usually this visa regime works quite well in facilitating commerce back and forth. But not always. Take for example a case I&nbsp;was recently involved in regarding a Canadian business.&nbsp;Despite evidence that the company deals with major players around the world, has dozens of employees on both sides of the border and has annual sales in the millions in both the U.S. and Canada, the company’s leader was denied permanent residence in the United States. It was argued in part that this person was neither a manager nor an executive. Yes, you can be in charge of the whole shop. No, this doesn’t mean you’re an executive or a manager. What?
										
										 
The argument was that from the materials submitted, U.S. immigration officials could not determine that the beneficiary primarily performs managerial or executive functions as opposed to day-to-day functions. But if a CEO makes millions of dollars for an organization from doing ‘day-to-day functions,’ shouldn’t that be what the organization and the U.S. want him to do? Further, if such a CEO is not a manager or executive, who is? 
Alas, in this area of intra-corporate transferees, ​U.S. ​authorities ​in particular ​have submerged themselves in such legal fine print that, ​like in the case mentioned, they sometimes have ​lost touch with normal business realities. 
Canadian immigration policy has also provided some frustrating moments. This year, the government tightened up on temporary foreign worker policies. They recently made an example of McDonald’s in this regard.​​ A great deal of media hysteria about temporary foreign workers taking jobs away from Canadians has, for all intents and purposes,&nbsp;forced the Canadian government to almost close the program down. This has left&nbsp;some in the business community to claim that the majority are being punished for the abuses of a few.  
These are the risks of immigration law: there is some subjectivity involved, not to mention politics, and there are no guarantees. 
Despite these aberrations, however,&nbsp;most NAFTA applications run smoothly. Hopefully that will be the case for the newly created Burger King/Tim Horton’s entity and its employees. 
Andy J. Semotiuk is a U.S. and Canadian immigration lawyer with offices in&nbsp;Toronto and Los Angeles. He is a&nbsp;published author and a former UN correspondent. Learn more at&nbsp;My Work Visa.