Green Bay's Lambeau Field Ranked As Best NFL Stadium To Watch A Game In New Book Green Bay's Lambeau Field Ranked As Best NFL Stadium To Watch A Game In New Book In today’s fast-moving, high-tech world being old is generally not considered a positive. Unless you are ranking NFL stadiums. 
In first-time author Sean MacDonald’s recently published travel guidebook, “The Ultimate Football Road Trip”, Green Bay’s Lambeau Field, which opened in 1957, topped the 31 other venues (with MetLife Stadium being counted twice). Only Chicago’s Soldier Field is older than Lambeau.
	
								 
“I ranked all 32 stadiums in 10 different categories and the only one that Lambeau suffered from is the parking and transit. It’s difficult to get out of there after a game,” said MacDonald, a computer programmer by trade. 
MacDonald, 48, spent $17,000 driving 20,353 miles over the course of last season, beginning his trek in Denver and ending it in Seattle before catching three playoff games and the Super Bowl. The book maps out a virtual road trip that fans can follow if they want to visit every stadium in 2014.
								
										 
In each market, MacDonald provides tips on how to score tickets to the stadium, what to eat, where to stay, the local bars and attractions, and the best routes to the next destination. “The reviews are designed to inform someone who is visiting a stadium for the first time so they can make the very most out of their sports dollar,” he said. “(The book) tells readers what to expect in terms of fans and atmosphere, where to find some historical touches, the best food options, and other tips for bars and restaurants after the game.” 
The second best stadium, according to MacDonald, is Heinz Field in Pittsburgh followed by Denver’s Sports Authority Field, Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis and M&amp;T Bank Stadium in Baltimore. The worst stadium in MacDonald’s eyes was Edward Jones Dome in St. Louis. 
MacDonald, who has also attended a game in all the baseball, hockey and basketball venues, will make trips to Minnesota and San Francisco this season to evaluate TCF Bank Stadium in Minneapolis and Levi’s Stadium in Santa Clara. 
MacDonald said he has already received plenty of negative feedback for the rankings but said, “People shouldn’t take it too seriously. If you’re a football fan and you like to travel, this is a fun way to enjoy the experience of seeing NFL games live.”
										
										 
Published by Mascot Books, it’s available in e-book form for $4.99 on Amazon.