The Business Of Charity - Four Drivers To Succeed The Business Of Charity - Four Drivers To Succeed A recent report from the Charities Aid Foundation showed that charitable giving by FTSE 100 companies has almost doubled since 2007, despite the recession. Many businesses are donating money and hours to charitable causes and demonstrating their commitment to local communities. Similarly, in recent years we have seen an increase in a slightly different form of giving, venture philanthropy. This sees donor and investors, often foundations, high-net-worth individuals and corporations, make an investment in or help to fund and run, typically, non-profit or charitable organisations and causes, with investors seeking a social return rather than a financial one. 
The high-net-worth individuals involved in venture philanthropy tend to have a business background, with many involved in the venture capital or private equity sector. Yet the key difference is that the involvement of many venture philanthropists does not result from a desire to further their own interests, but rather from a belief that the skills they have acquired in their business lives are transferable and can be used to help causes which they believe in.
	
								 
Indeed, business and charitable work can be complementary, as many of the most well-known foundations prove, often using business metrics to assess performance and effectiveness. This is because while the fundamental goals of business success and venture philanthropy may differ (making money and growing your business and profits vs. raising money and assisting a non-profit cause) the ways in which these goals can be achieved remain the same: having a clear purpose, good management, a strong team, hard work and dedication. 
As I have seen from my involvement with two non-profit foundations – the Shadowview Foundation and the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society – these kinds of organisations have their own experienced and knowledgeable teams running day-to-day activities. So for investors it is rewarding to not only be able to help sponsor their activities, but also to be able to offer business help and advice as and when the opportunity arises. Skills learned in the business world are indisputably applicable to the successful management of foundations like these, as the following examples show.
								
										 
1) Know your goals 
Successful businesspeople know exactly where they want their business to go, often years before they reach that point. In the early days of Waterland Private Equity Investments in 1999, a plan for the business was set out in yearly increments. The business model involved an initial series of gradual expansions in Western Europe – and it worked. After several years of success in these markets the company was able to expand further into Eastern Europe. Planning goals in advance helps to create a timeline for success: a start, a middle point, finishing straight, and end. Then, of course, the cycle can begin again, although it should be a more familiar process by that point. Success building on success. 
The same of true of a foundation, whether its cause be charitable, environmental or societal. There should be a business model and set of achievable goals in place to help guide the organisation and drive growth, with goals developing as the organisation grows. Shadowview was founded in 2013 and has two key goals – to conserve nature and biodiversity and fight environmental crime – which it seeks to achieve via four main approaches, all adhering to its ethical guidelines and organisational philosophy. 
2) Trust
										
										 
After a certain point, a successful business can’t be run by just one person, or even a handful of people, no matter how good they are. Despite the best of intentions that person will inevitably start to lack the necessary time, manpower and energy required for the business to function at the appropriate level. For that reason they will look to expand the team with bright, like-minded individuals. Being able to place your trust in your team and delegate needs to them is a fundamental part of the successful continuation of your business. 
It is the same when it comes to managing a foundation. Like in business, while investors may seek to be as hands on as possible for a cause that is important to them, when it gets to the point that the time they are able to give is simply not enough, and the organisation begins to suffer as a result, delegation skills learned in business will enable them to be able to place their trust in an experienced, knowledgeable and efficient team, who can devote their time to whatever the cause may be. This will benefit the foundation, ensuring that any time an investor can give can be used as efficiently as possible. 
3) Belief in what you’re doing 
For a business to be successful you have to commit to it and believe in what you are trying to achieve – whether that is initial growth, reputation building or further expansion. It goes without saying that when you are juggling business interests as well as being engaged with the work of a foundation, your time is precious. For this reason one of the most crucial things is that, just like in business, you believe in and support the cause of the foundation. Without this the effort and time you find yourself being able and willing to give will suffer. Something else to consider: make sure that if you do decide to become involved in a foundation that it doesn’t conflict with your existing business commitments. 
4) Perseverance 
Ask anyone that has been successful in business and they will tell you that success doesn’t happen overnight. It takes long hours, days, months and often years to reach a point at which you can recognise some form of success, be it hitting certain targets, achieving recognition or cementing your reputation in the industry you operate in. 
Again, the same is true of work in foundations. While it can be frustrating to not achieve instant recognition for meaningful work that helps others, venture philanthropists must remember to see the venture as a business and persevere. Like in business there will undoubtedly be other similar organisations clamouring for attention and funding, making it all the more important to play the long game, build from the ground up, generate concrete results and cement the foundation’s status and reputation as you go. 
Most people who have succeeded in their business endeavours will be rightly proud of what they have achieved. However, many undoubtedly will be equally as proud of how this success and the business skills that they acquired en route have enabled them to give something back to charitable organisations, foundations and important causes. Not only do they feel fortunate to be able to be involved with them and learn more about their work, a real highlight is being able to meet the many interesting people who are devoting their lives to immensely worthwhile causes. 
&nbsp;