Review: 'Sons of Anarchy' Sets The Stage For A Satisfying Conclusion Review: 'Sons of Anarchy' Sets The Stage For A Satisfying Conclusion Last year, four series came to an artistically decided upon conclusion: Burn Notice, Futurama, Dexter and Breaking Bad. However, that many series finales in a single year is typically unusual. Normally, there are one or two at the most that are announced ahead of time. One or two finales that, by their nature, become television events for audiences, and this year, that audience event belongs to FX’s highly rated and critically adored outlaw drama, Sons of Anarchy. After seven years, the boys of SAMCRO will embark on one last ride and, based on the first three episodes, it’s going to be glorious. 
Picking up ten days after the events of the season six finale, audiences will join up with Jax who, at the moment, is under investigation for the death of his wife, Tara. What unfolds following the completion of the investigation delves far too deeply into spoiler territory, but what’s important to note is the state at which we see Jax at the start of the season. If you’re expecting to see him in full blown tunnel vision without a care for what or who his rage harms, you’re in luck, because that’s exactly what you’re going to get.
	
								 
 
For the entire run of the motorcycle drama, the lingering question has always been, what kind of leader is Jax ultimately going to become? Is he going to evolve into the idealized version of his father, or will he succumb to the evils of his lifestyle and end up like Clay? For six seasons, we’ve watched the Teller son fight tooth and nail to be everything Clay was not. For the first time, however, what we see in season seven is a Jax that could actually become that which he hated for so long by the end of the series.
								
									 
The initial episodes paint of picture based in lies. One lie leads to another and another and another. How far these lies stretch only series creator Kurt Sutter knows, but as audience members, we can take solace in the fact that we’re finally seeing a Jax that doesn’t have all the answers. We’re seeing a Jax that simply doesn’t care anymore about what happens in the future because the present is all the matters. 
All that said, this isn’t just “the Jax Teller ending.” The show’s also clearly setting up endings for every character that’s ever populated the series’ world. Gemma will get her end. Uncer will get his end. Chibs will get his end. Even the girls of Cara Cara appear to be getting a conclusion to their story. We all know finale’s are hard, and it appears Sutter and his team are making sure to get theirs right. 
While Sons of Anarchy isn’t going the path of Breaking Bad that felt like it closed a chapter of its story with every episode during its final season, it is taking a path that’s clearly building to a conclusion. It doesn’t matter if that conclusion ends in smiles or tears, simply knowing it’s coming – in full force no less – is enough to make us happy with its ultimate potential. After seven seasons, we’re going to watch the world of Charming, California crumble, and when the dust settles, there’s a very real chance that no matter who’s left standing, we’re all going to walk away satisfied with the end result.