Apple Investors Shrug Off iCloud Hacks Apple Investors Shrug Off iCloud Hacks A customer dresses up with the Apple logo for the opening of a new Apple Store in Tokyo in June.Image: Ken Ishii/Getty

The hacking over the weekend of iCloud accounts for Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton and about 100 other celebs didn't faze Apple investors. 
At the close of trading on Tuesday — the first day back since the incident came to light — Apple's stock was up about 1%. The news that Apple was teaming up with Visa and MasterCard for an iPhone wallet appears to have overshadowed any potential blowback from consumers about the safety of iCloud.
Apple has maintained that iCloud's security is not to blame. None of the cases it investigated "resulted from any breach in any of Apple's systems including iCloud or Find my iPhone," according to a statement from the company. Apple is "continuing to work with law enforcement to help identify the criminals involved," the statement continued. 

Tim Bajarin, president of Creative Strategies and a longtime Apple watcher, says if anything the incident shows that Apple's security works. "It's very clear the way these hackers got in is the old-fashioned way," Bajarin says. "Someone who knew these celebs more than likely had given info out somewhere." Bajarin says weak passwords, not lax iCloud security, is to blame. "I feel sorry for Apple," he says. "This could have happened to anyone."
Robert Siciliano, a McAfee online security expert, says the only thing Apple did wrong was to not force consumers to use two-factor authentication, like banks do. However, no major tech company requires two-factor either. "Two-factor doesn't pass the grandmother test," he says. "But at this point, if your grandmother can't use two-factor then she shouldn't use iCloud."
iCloud is the linchpin of Apple's mobile computing strategy. A hack that demonstrated a vulnerability in iCloud could conceivably convince consumers to take a pass on Apple's expected product releases next week, including an iPhone 6 and an iWatch. No one has made the case that that happened, though or demonstrated that alternatives like Android and Windows Phone are more secure — at least not yet.  Another possibility — that the hack was the result of a brute force attack into the Find my iPhone API — also has not been proven. 
In the absence of such data, investors are wagering that either Apple is telling the truth or consumers don't care. Either way, it looks like Apple has dodged a bullet.