Bears Remain In Control Of Near Term Gold Trend Bears Remain In Control Of Near Term Gold Trend (Kitco News)&nbsp;- December Comex gold futures pushed lower to start the week as the bears remain in control of the near term technical trend. The yellow metal has been declining in a bear channel since early July and the market appears vulnerable toward a test of channel support this week. 
Taking a look at Figure 1, bear channel support comes in around $1,255 per ounce on Tuesday, but is declining every day. From a chart standpoint, the next bearish target lies at the June 17 daily low at $1,259.60. But, the gold market has taken out the 61.8% Fibonacci retracement drawn off the June-early July rally move, which ultimately leaves gold vulnerable to a retest of the early June lows in the $1,241-1,241 zone, marked as “A” on Figure 1.
	
								 
Daily momentum studies have been choppy, but are generally pointing lower. The moving average picture is bearish with December gold trading below all significant moving averages including the 20-day, 40-day, 100-day and 200-day. That position tends to keep trend following traders negative on a market. (Not all the moving averages are shown here). 
While the bear channel pattern is weak and declining, the pace of decline have been slow in recent weeks, and counter-trend rallies have emerged. For now, however, the counter-trend strength has not been significant enough to break the downtrend pattern.
								
										 
Bottom line? Near term, the bears have their eye on a retest of $1,259.60, but a more important technical target is seen at the early June lows in the $1,241-$1,242 region. On the upside, it would take a rally back above initial resistance at $1,297.60, the August 28 daily high, marked as “B” on Figure 1, in order to show that the bulls are regaining modest control of the near term trend. Beyond there, the bear channel top line would offer resistance. 
Big picture? The gold market continues to languish about midway between the December 31, 2013 low and the 2014 high scored in mid March. Those points are marked on Figure 1 below. The near term trend pattern is weak, but bearish momentum has been lackluster and trading action has been marked by periods of counter-trend rally move. The larger multi-month technical trend since the start of the year remains neutral within the year’s high and the December 31 low. 
 
Kira Brecht is managing editor at TraderPlanet.
										
										 
By Kira Brecht, Kitco.com Follow her on Twitter @KiraBrecht