How To Find Out What Coworkers Earn How To Find Out What Coworkers Earn Whether you are negotiating for a raise or standing up for your legal rights,  knowing what coworkers earn gives you the upper hand . 
Let’s say the company is about to transfer you to a new city with a higher cost of living. Don’t count on management to tell you that people earn more there. Most likely, you’ll have to find out for yourself, and then negotiate for a salary adjustment. Or maybe you haven’t had a raise in a while. By knowing what people with similar credentials and responsibilities earn, you can come up with a request that’s in the ballpark.
	
								 
Wage transparency is also “the only way you can find out whether you are being discriminated against or whether the company is violating the union contract or your own employment agreement,” says Donna Ballman,&nbsp;a Florida employment lawyer and author of the book, Stand Up For Yourself Without Getting Fired: Resolve Workplace Crises Before You Quit, Get Axed or Sue the Bastards.  
A classic case involved Lilly Ledbetter, who worked for Goodyear for 19 years before she found out that she was paid less than men in the same job. Her equal-pay lawsuit against the company went to the U.S. Supreme Court, which found in 2006 that her claim, under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, was barred by the statute of limitations, even though she didn’t have the information soon enough to file a case on time. Congress changed the law with the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, the first major legislation Pres. Obama signed after taking office.
								
										 
As always, you must file a pay discrimination claim within 180 days of the pay decision. But the 2009 law makes clear that the clock resets each pay period until you discover the inequity. It applies retroactively to May 28, 2007 (the day before the Supreme Court decision), and affects lawsuits involving pay disparity based on: race, age, sex, religion, national origin or disability. 
Still a lot of employers, through provisions in handbooks and contracts, try to prohibit employees from discussing wages, says Michael Scimone, an employment lawyer with Outten &amp; Golden in New York. Those provisions are largely illegal as applied to rank-and-file workers. The National Labor Relations Act, or NLRA, guarantees most non-supervisory employees in the private sector the right to talk about working conditions with coworkers, he explains. If your company tries to keep you from comparing salaries or benefits with colleagues, it may be breaking the law. You can file a Charge Against Employer with the National Labor Relations Board. The Board is cracking down hard on companies that have written or unofficial policies that prohibit the discussion of wages, lawyers say. 
The NLRA only protects nonsupervisory employees, though, and lines can get blurry, Ballman notes. Title and salary have nothing to do with it – the key is what are your actual duties. Sometimes people are called managers even though they don’t manage anyone. (For more about your rights at work, see Ballman’s article, “Ten Things Your Boss Doesn’t Want You To&nbsp;Know.”) 
A recent executive order also protects supervisors at private enterprises if those companies are federal contractors. (If your company does work for the federal government, chances are you know it, but if you’re not sure you can file a Freedom of Information Act request to find out.) Under the executive order, which Pres. Obama signed April 8, the company can’t fire you or discriminate against you because you have “inquired about, discussed, or disclosed the compensation of the employee or applicant or another employee or applicant.” There’s a narrow exception for supervisors who are privy to salary information and spill the beans “unless such disclosure is in response to a formal complaint or charge, in furtherance of an investigation, proceeding, hearing, or action, including an investigation conducted by the employer, or is consistent with the contractor’s legal duty to furnish information.”
										
										 
What are some ways to get the information? Sometimes it’s available just for the asking – from a current or former colleague or even from a supervisor. If you work at a non-profit, check the organization’s latest tax filing–Form 990–which is a public record. Among other things, it includes the salaries of more people than you may realize. 
Good schmoozers know that  corporation transitions are prime times to dig for information about what other people earn . Before a new person comes on board (and loyalties develop), ask colleagues what the company has offered your future coworker. If someone is coming from a company known for its good pay, your employer may have upped the ante. 
Another strategy for working the office grapevine: find out what an outgoing person was earning.&nbsp;  People tend to be much more frank about their salaries when they are leaving the company . That’s the time to ask diplomatically, “Will the money at your next job be as good as what you were earning here?” 
Or, you could open the door to a conversation with colleagues who remain – for example, by asking “are you was dissatisfied as I am with the dollars around here?” (Then ask, “how much do you think we deserve?”) The next time a coworker gripes, “for what they’re paying me, I shouldn’t have to put up with this. . .” Do some gentle prodding. (“You’re right; so what would make it worth the aggravation?”) 
When all else fails, guesstimate. Kate White, author of Why Good Girls Don’t Get Ahead… But Gutsy Girls Do (2008) recommends asking peers in the industry what they think is the going rate for the job you are in. People don’t “lowball the number because they don’t want you to think they’re making a skimpy salary,” she writes. “And they don’t highball it because they wouldn’t want you to go out and ask for more than they’re making.” 
If you find out about a pay discrepancy, you may have a legal claim&nbsp; under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act or, if it is gender-based, the Equal Pay Act. Consult an employment lawyer in your state who specializes in representing employees to discuss your rights and possible legal strategies. 
Archive of Forbes Articles By Deborah Jacobs 
Deborah L. Jacobs, a lawyer and journalist, is the author of Estate Planning Smarts: A Practical, User-Friendly, Action-Oriented Guide, now available in the third edition.  

 see photosGetty Images
 Click for full photo gallery: 10 Unusual Jobs That Pay Surprisingly Well
