First Tesla, Now Toyota: States Battle Over Attracting Big Companies First Tesla, Now Toyota: States Battle Over Attracting Big Companies Earlier this year, Tesla Motors set off a frenzied battle among Southwestern states to land its $5 billion gigafactory — a decision that has yet to be made. Now, it turns out that there has been another war between the states over Toyota Motor Co.’s U.S. headquarters. 
The Associated Press obtained documents showing that North Carolina offered Toyota $100 million in incentives to move its operations there from California and elsewhere, only to lose out to Plano, Texas, for an offer that was less than half that size.
	
								 
North Carolina’s Commerce Secretary, Sharon Decker, said the state’s offer had to be significantly greater than $46.75 million offered by Texas, because Texas has virtually no corporate or income tax, according to the AP. Texans do not pay personal income tax, and the corporate rate is only about 0.5 percent, or less for some employers. 
The Texas offer included $40 million from the Texas Enterprise Fund, set up specifically to attract investments, and an additional $6.75 million from Plano itself. The new headquarters, which will consolidate several Toyota operations, is expected to employ 2,900 staff members and another 1,000 company contract employees.
								
										 
Despite the higher financial offer reported by AP, North Carolina cannot compete with Texas in one crucial sense. Plano is near Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport, where American Airlines offers non-stop service to Tokyo. It’s also a fast hop from Dallas to other cities with non-stop flights to Asia. 
There are no similar flights to Japan from Charlotte Douglas International Airport, underscoring a point made by Toyota spokesman Mike Michaels. “Incentives were just one of many considerations” Toyota considered including geography, transportation, the cost of living and educational opportunities, he said in an emailed statement to the AP. 
Michaels went on, “We chose a location that better supports our diverse geographic footprint, in a time zone that allows us to communicate better with most of our operations, and has direct flights to all our operations.” 
Word on the Texas-North Carolina battle is coming out now because North Carolina law requires the release of recruiting documents after a company has announced a decision on its preferred location.
										
										 

 see photosAP Photo/David Zalubowski, File
 Click for full photo gallery: Tesla's Gigafactory
 
However, Decker and some other North Carolina officials do not want to give up. They are calling for Gov. Pat McCrory to call back the state assembly, to consider incentives that were not before lawmakers in their session this year. 
In particular, business proponents are pushing for N.C. to create a $20 million Job Catalyst Fund that might be used to sweeten deals such as the Toyota competition. 
There is debate in North Carolina over whether the legislature should get involved in using incentives to woo companies. Meanwhile, California’s legislature adjourned its 2013-2014 session over the weekend without acting on a measure that could have included incentives to land the Tesla gigafactory. 
The lack of action came because Tesla has not reached agreement with the next state that will be allowed to complete preparations for a site to hold the gigafactory. It has announced that Reno, Nevada, is the first finalist among up to three that it is expected to select. Tesla is seeking $500 million in incentives from the winning state, or 10 percent of the plant’s overall cost. 
Tesla initially planned to announce one finalist in June, and another in July or August. However, it has not gone ahead with more states, a move seen as giving California time to catch up. Tesla’s billionaire CEO, Elon Musk, wants compete states to complete the site preparation work, and to line up all required permits plus incentives before naming a winner. 
Tesla still hopes to choose a winning state by the end of 2014, but the California legislature does not return until Dec. 1. It remains to be seen whether there will be more than one state who can meet Tesla’s conditions. 
&nbsp; 
Read my new Forbes ebook, Curbing Cars: America’s Independence From The Auto Industry.  
Follow me on Twitter @mickimaynard