Why 60 Is The New 30 Why 60 Is The New 30 In Business, Gray Is The New Gold. Here’s Why: 
I’m happy to report that the rumors are true. At least when it comes to business, 60 has become the new 30.
	
								 
Over the past year, I’ve had the opportunity to review nearly 200 start-up companies seeking money, business strategy or empowering connections. Some of these companies are being run by young adults barely out of school, some by not-so-young adults—the aforementioned hinted at 60-year-olds—who are literally starting over when our grandparents would be strolling around golf communities in Florida. 
According to the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, the 55 – 64 age group has shown the largest increase in entrepreneurial ventures, now accounting for more than 20 percent of all start-ups. And you know what? All those gray-hairs are giving millennials a serious run for the venture capitalists’ (and other investors’) money.
								
										 
There is a very real comfort in funding, coaching or connecting with someone who is senior to yourself because their request for help comes with the experience, humility and bruises that young entrepreneurs—regardless of their IQ or wonderful ideas—have not yet achieved. 
The last of the company men (and women) are today’s entrepreneurs. 
Consider Jeff. He’s moved from being the CEO of a large hospital network to the founding partner of a health care software company, which has an innovative way to both enhance the customer experience and accelerate payments to service providers. 
Or Mary, an impressive leader who after a career of working at a large food manufacturer decided to create a business that is a deli by day and creates ready-made dinners for busy commuters at night. When both of these ideas worked, she added a now thriving catering business.
										
										 
Or Steve Kearley, now working on his 12th start-up since starting his entrepreneurial journey more than 25 years ago. Says Steve, “I now laugh at how I approached my early business launches. Maybe it was simply being naive or too dumb to realize I shouldn’t be able to do it, but my early ventures were started with almost no capital, what seemed to be a good idea and a lot of passion. Today, I won’t start a business without being well capitalized. The difference is that I am not using the capital to learn how to run a business; I am using it to secure the right people and accelerate distribution.” 
 
What’s going on here? A few things, some of which you know, some of which you may not. 
For one thing, being between 50 – 60 no longer signals the end of the road, not when you consider that the actuarial tables say people that age are expected to live into their 80s on average. And who wants to sit around for two to three decades just aging in place? 
However, it is more than a desire to simply do something. Baby boomers in their 60s are using tech, the great equalizer, to their advantage. Many have already been classically trained in skills like inventory management, distribution, manufacturing, marketing and sales. Technology now gives them thousands of shortcuts to put this knowledge to use. 
But perhaps the biggest difference between the companies being started by aging baby boomers and the people young enough to be their kids is this: People in their 20s and 30s were trying to build companies around ideas that appeal to them and their friends. No surprise there. And on the surface, it even makes commercial sense. The millennial generation will be the largest cohort in American history. 
But simply by living 20 – 30 years longer, those in their 50s and 60s have been exposed to more, and it is reflected in the ideas I have been seeing. For example, Jeff, the former hospital CEO, is connecting his experience working with insurers, hospital staff and doctors with his own personal reflections about having kids in a waiting room. His ideas are richly informed by multiple needs in the market, not just a cool way to do something faster or slicker. 
There’s something else, too. Many young entrepreneurs have been bitten by the venture bug; you’ll see them proudly announcing that they made it to their third round of funding, which is no small feat. 
  Why aren’t the baby boomers making raising capital their top priority? They understand what millennials often don’t: Money is not the thing holding young businesses back. Seasoned business people understand the value of their young company being endorsed by a global brand as a quality product or service. They know that if a large company with distribution and sales in place decides to help you out, many of your problems are over and others are just beginning. While money may give you a longer runway to figure all of this out, most young entrepreneurs fail to make these connections in time. So while a young entrepreneur is busy dancing in front of the local Shark Tank, baby boomer business owners are talking to their peers about distribution, cobranding and partnerships. The net results are faster speed to market while keeping a higher percentage of ownership. These are good things. 
The point about this is not that one approach is better than another. 
It is that all those rapidly aging baby boomers are holding their own in today’s entrepreneurial race. So while some people are enamored with the young mare who is fast out of the gate, I’ll bet on Blue-Haired-Baby to place every time. 
&nbsp; 
Follow me on Twitter&nbsp;@theideamonkey&nbsp;or read my Forbes&nbsp;blog&nbsp;here.