New York Times Adds Climate Editor After Slashing Environmental Coverage New York Times Adds Climate Editor After Slashing Environmental Coverage Image: Flickr, Jason Kuffer

About 19 months after closing down its special team of environmental reporters, the New York Times has named Adam Bryant as editor overseeing climate change and environmental issues for the paper's science coverage. 
Bryant announced the news on Twitter on Tuesday, noting that he will scale back his other responsibilities at the Times as part of the move. 


#Corneroffice will now be airing once a week, as I will be joining @nytimesscience as an editor of #climatechange &amp; #environment coverage!
— Adam Bryant (@nytcorneroffice) September 2, 2014

Bryant had been serving as a columnist for "Corner Office," in which he interviewed chief executives on management and leadership. The column had run twice a week but will now run once a week, according to his Twitter post.
The Times closed down its "pod" of seven reporters in January 2013. Then managing editor Dean Baquet, who has since taken over as the paper's executive editor, claimed that the change would not drastically impact coverage of the topic. “We can tell the story just as well without the infrastructure,” Baquet told Times public editor Margaret Sullivan.
Less than three months later, the Times also closed down the "Green" blog, which followed energy and environmental news.
Sullivan noted that the moves led to plenty of critique of the Times. 
Despite claims that coverage would be unaffected, a study quoted by Sullivan showed that the Times' environmental coverage dropped by about a third based on a year-over-year comparison of April to September. However, the paper continued to devote reporters to climate in the interim, including Justin Gillis and Coral Davenport, who is based in Washington.
The Times has been working to keep costs down as subscription revenue growth fails to keep up with falling advertising income. The company costs roughly $363 million to operate in the second quarter of 2014, down from about $432 million in the same period of 2013.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.