Social Security: Getting the Spousal Benefit Right Social Security: Getting the Spousal Benefit Right Maximizing your Social Security benefit isn’t a simple matter. You can leave a lot of money on the table depending on when you claim your benefits. 
The spousal benefit is a case in point. If you take it before a certain age, you will receive lower payments for the rest of your life.
	
								 
Frank and William Rainaldi, principals with the Kugler System’s Social Security Analysis Tools, explained spousal benefits strategies in a recent post in WealthManagement.com. 
Like most other benefits strategies in Social Security, you often reap a higher payment if you claim at “full retirement” age, which varies depending upon when you were born.
								
										 
For those born between 1943 and 1954, the “full” or normal retirement age for Social Security purposes is 66. The later you were born, the higher the normal retirement age: It’s 67 for those born after 1960. 
Although you can take Social Security as early as age 62, your benefit is reduced from what you will receive at full retirement age. For example, if you were born after 1960 and your full benefit (at age 67) is $1,000, your benefit would be $700. Note: You’d get a bonus of an 8-percent annual benefit hike for every year you wait to collect a benefit up until age 70. 
For spousal benefits, which are based on another formula, you also see a haircut in the payment if you retire early. A $500 spousal benefit would be cut to $325 per month at age 62. 
What if your spouse dies? Then the spousal benefit depends upon the age of the departed partner. According to the Rainaldis:
										
										 
“For a surviving spouse’s benefit, the age of the surviving spouse used to determine if benefits are paid early or at full retirement age (FRA).&nbsp; If the benefit is paid early, say age 62, there will be an actuarial reduction.&nbsp; But prior to any actuarial reduction, the amount of the benefit applicable to or being paid to the deceased spouse is used to determine the amount paid.” 
By the way, “actuarial reduction” is insurance speak for a lower benefit based on your age. That means if the higher-earning spouse dies prior to the normal retirement age, the spousal benefit will be lowered. The benefit will be boosted if the late spouse reached normal retirement age. 
“In this case, the survivor benefit is fairly straightforward.&nbsp; It’s simply the higher of the two benefits.&nbsp; If one spouse is collecting $2,500 and the other is collecting $1,500, the surviving spouse’s benefit would $2,500.&nbsp; It actually doesn’t matter which spouse dies, the survivor benefit is still $2,500. 
Let’s note an important difference between survivor benefits and spousal benefits.&nbsp; Spousal retirement benefits provide a maximum 50 percent of the other spouse’s primary insurance amount (PIA), while a surviving spouse’s benefit provide a maximum benefit of 100 percent of the deceased worker’s retirement benefit.” 
Some Twists and Turns 
You have to keep in mind the difference between spousal and survivor benefits, because they are calculated in two different ways.Remember that bonus Social Security adds to your monthly payment if you wait to claim after age 70? That comes into play as a “delayed retirement credit” in the survivor benefit. 
Here’s an example: 
“Assume Mr. K. has a personal benefit of $2,000.&nbsp; This is the amount he would get at age 66.&nbsp; But let’s say he elects to defer until age 70.&nbsp; He would then get a 32 percent increase in his personal benefit to $2,640. 
  Now let’s say Mrs. K. never worked outside the home.&nbsp; When Mr. K. is age 66, the spousal benefit would be 50 percent, or $1,000.&nbsp; But what would it be when he’s age 70?&nbsp; It would still be $1,000 (not $1,320), because the 32 percent increase doesn’t apply to spousal benefits.&nbsp; But delayed retirement credits do apply to survivor benefits.&nbsp; So if Mr. K. died, Mrs. K. would get the full $2,640 as a survivor benefit.” 
While you can’t determine when somebody’s going to die, you can craft a Social Security strategy before you claim your benefits. Generally the higher benefits are paid if you wait until 70. But if you or your spouse are in poor health, it may make sense to claim early. 
Just keep in mind that the longer you wait, the higher the benefit for both partners. Of course, this gets even more complicated when you combine it with pensions, savings and other retirement funds. 
My suggestion is that you consult with a fee-only financial planner who knows how to do Social Security maximization (you pay them for their time and they won’t sell you products you don’t need). They can run a number of scenarios for you and let you decide which is the best one. 
&nbsp; 

 see photosAP
 Click for full photo gallery: How Star Athletes Deal With Retirement
 
&nbsp; 
John Wasik is the author of Keynes’s Way to Wealth and 13 other books. He writes and speaks about investing across the globe. Follow him on Twitter and Facebook. &nbsp;