Can The Dutch Biotech Dezima Really Impact Heart Disease With Its HDL-Raising Drug? Can The Dutch Biotech Dezima Really Impact Heart Disease With Its HDL-Raising Drug? Despite the success of statins, atherosclerosis is still a major health issue and researchers continue to look for improvements in lipid control for patients who, despite statin use, are still at risk of heart attacks and strokes. The hottest area right now in the field of lipid modulation is drugs that block the actions of a protein known as PCSK-9. When used in combinations with statins, PCSK-9 inhibitors lower LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) to unprecedented levels.&nbsp;Many believe that PCSK-9 inhibitors will prove to be a major medical advance in the treatment of heart disease and result in blockbuster sales for the companies that can bring these drugs to market. 
A decade ago, another class of compounds held similar promise. Known as CETP inhibitors, these drugs both raise HDL cholesterol (HDL-C) levels and lower LDL-C. Raising HDL-C was considered to be the “holy grail” in treating heart disease as high HDL-C levels were believed to be cardioprotective. But a funny thing happened on the way to the world of CETP blockbusters. First, Pfizer reported that its CETP inhibitor, torcetrapib, despite increasing HDL-C by 72% and lowering LDL-C by 25% over comparators, actually increased morbidity and mortality. &nbsp;Roche later followed with negative results with its CETP inhibitor. Despite these setbacks, Merck and Lilly have continued to progress their CETP inhibitors through clinical development, believing that their compounds have advantages over the Pfizer and Roche drugs. But the early excitement around CETP inhibitors has long faded.
	
								 
Merck’s CETP Inhibitor, anacetrapib, has already completed a 76 weeks “safety study” in 1623 patients in order to be certain that it was better tolerated than the compounds that had failed. Anacetrapib had robust effects on LDL-C (40% decrease) and HDL-C (138% increase) as well as an acceptable side-effect profile and none of the adverse cardiovascular effects of torcetrapib. Given this result, Merck has launched an anacetrapib outcomes study known as “REVEAL – Randomized Evaluation of the Effects of Anacetrapib through Lipid modification”. Merck has recruited over 30,000 for this study designed to determine if anacetrapib reduces the risk of coronary death, myocardial infarction, or coronary revascularization. While Merck hasn’t discussed the costs of this trial, given that it is expected to run for 6 years and given the large numbers of patients required to measure the impact of this drug on cardiovascular disease (CVD), it is likely to cost $400 – $500 million. CVD outcomes studies are not for the faint of heart. But this type of study is absolutely necessary. The FDA and other regulatory agencies will not approve a drug like this based only on lipid effects. They demand that these changes in LDL-C and HDL-C actually reduce heart attacks and other CV events. 
Given the challenges and the expense of developing CETP inhibitors, one might assume this area of research was the exclusive domain of Big Pharma. However, upstart Dezima Pharma, a Dutch Biotech company, has just entered the fray. Dezima licensed a CETP inhibitor, TA-8995, from Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma, and has just issued a press release touting the results of a mid-stage clinical trial measuring lipid levels over 3 months in 364 patients on varying doses of TA-8995. Here’s what Dezima’s CEO, Rob de Ree had to say.
								
										 
“These results are clearly very exciting. Compared to other CETP inhibitors TA-8995 combines the highest levels of efficacy seen on lipid parameters with a 20-fold lower dose. Combined with excellent safety and favorable pharmacokinetic profile, this positions TA-8995 as the best-in-class CETP inhibitor as we move towards Phase 3.” 
Unfortunately, the Dezima press release didn’t provide any hard data on the actual effects of TA-8995. The press release did say that: “The company plans to publish the full data over the coming months in peer reviewed journals and that it is preparing for the start of pivotal Phase 3 studies in 2015.” OK, let’s take them at their word that they have a potent CETP inhibitor. I still have a few concerns about this program. 
First, the claim of 20-fold greater potency doesn’t impress me. Who cares if the dose of the Dezima’s pill is 5mg vs. 100mg of a competitor? Greater potency doesn’t usually translate into greater efficacy. The issue is really is whether TA-8995 will be more effective in reducing morbidity and mortality as compared to other CETP inhibitors like anacetrapib. 
That leads to my second concern. According to Ryan McBride at FierceBiotech, Dezima was able to raise $18.6 million in first-round venture and loan financing last year.&nbsp;That was probably the funding that enabled Dezima to push TA-8995 through Phase 2. But that’s peanuts compared to what is needed to carry out pivotal phase 3 studies. Are Dezima’s financial backers prepared to invest hundreds of millions of dollars to run a Phase 3 program on the scale of Merck’s? Perhaps Dezima feels that it can get by with a scaled back program. But that doesn’t make sense. Let’s say Merck’s REVEAL study fails to show a benefit. Such a result would certainly cast even more doubt on the CETP hypothesis and cause the FDA and other regulators to require a major outcomes study that demonstrates a reduction of CV events to justify approval. But if REVEAL is the home run that Merck is hoping for, Dezima would have to prove that the greater potency of TA-8995 actually translates to better clinical outcomes in order to compete with anacetrapib with physicians and payers. Furthermore, Merck could be on the market 4 -5 years ahead of TA-8995 and already be well entrenched in the marketplace.
										
										 
Either way, Dezima is facing a long, expensive path forward. It’s one thing to raise $18.6 million, but can it raise a few hundred million dollars? Perhaps Dezima is hoping to raise the necessary capital through an IPO. Or maybe it believes that a successful REVEAL study will make other Big Pharma companies want to have access to a TA-8995, license it, and agree to fund the morbidity/mortality study. But I am not very optimistic about these prospects. 
Most people love to root for the underdog, including me. However, the TA-8995 story is a major longshot. It’s one competition that I would avoid.