The Best Bites at the U.S. Open The Best Bites at the U.S. Open With the first week of the U.S. Open over, we can already name some champions: the best bites of the tournament. After sampling several dishes offered at Food Village, the inspired stretch of stalls outside the main stadiums, the most delectable food is being served by the newest additions to this sports classic turned foodie mecca (40 percent of the ingredients were grown locally). 
Pat LaFrieda is offering the Open’s most popular dish at his eponymous stand. Calling it a steak sandwich does not do justice to the decadence fans get for $17: four slices of filet mignon, melt-in-your-mouth caramelized onions and quality sharp monetary jack cheese on a toasty ciabatta roll. The dish masters the textural necessities of every crave-worthy sandwich: the crunchy bread leads to the oozy cheese melded with the silky onions draped over the tender medium-rare filet. If the price makes you wary, consider that the cheapest dish worth getting at Food Village is $12. Forking over an extra $5 will net you four slices of LaFrieda-supplied filet mignon—you won’t get that deal anywhere else in New York City.
	
								 

 
 The U.S. Open has become a foodie mecca.
 

 
 Pat LaFrieda’s steak sandwich
								
										
 
Hit up LaFrieda’s stand with a friend and split the steak sandwich and the all-beef meatball hero. The fresh, fluffy ricotta blends lusciously with the sharp tomato sauce—another textural masterpiece. 

 
 Pat LaFrieda’s meatball sub
 
As hard as it is to make bad nachos—a microwave and shredded cheese gussies up even the stalest chips at any bar—it is also difficult to luxuriate them for a global sporting event. Chef Richard Sandoval pulls it off at the Maya stand, topping his nachos with homemade queso and skirt steak marinated in chipotle and serano chili peppers. The nachos are also one of the most sizable purchases at the Open, great for sharing or gluttonously gorging on alone. 

 
 Richard Sandomir’s nachos with skirt steak at Maya
										
										
 
Dishes that take all day to braise are delivered in seconds from Farm2Fork . The stand compliments to its meat sandwiches with excellent produce and sauces. The short rib is braised in red wine, vegetables and beef stock for 12 hours and topped with watercress, horseradish cream and a thick, juicy slice of New Jersey-raised tomato. The tender pork is nestled under broccoli rabe and spicy whole grain mustard. My personal recommendation is to nix the bread and eat the stuff with a fork and knife. 

 
 The short rib sandwich at Farm2Fork
 

 
 The braised pork sandwich at Farm2Fork
 
Seafood lovers can always rely on the Open’s lobster roll, sold at multiple locations, but the Skuna Bay salmon on the sandwich served at Liberty Pier ships from Alaska to Flushing in one to two days and may represent the pursuit of freshness better than any other dish at Food Village. 

 
 The salmon sandwich at Liberty Pier
 
The food at the Open is high-quality in part to meet the standards of its diverse and often affluent crowd, but also because chefs can treat their stands like actual restaurants over a 14-day period. So go pig out and enjoy another week of indulgence.