Norwegian Buys Its Way Out of Cheap Caribbean Cruises Norwegian Buys Its Way Out of Cheap Caribbean Cruises 
                
                     Norwegian Cruise Line , the third-largest cruise company, is moving into the tony segment of the market with its $3 billion deal for Prestige Cruises International, the parent of Oceania Cruises and Regent Seven Seas Cruises.
                
            
            
                 
Most businesses want&nbsp;have a high-end product, and that’s exactly what&nbsp;Norwegian has bought for itself.&nbsp;The acquisition will help bring in more revenue from outside Caribbean, where Norwegian now gets about half its sales—and where sales have&nbsp;hampered recently by a glut of new cruise ships. 
Norwegian shares soared 11 percent on news of the deal, which is seen as a way to become less dependent on budget vacationers.&nbsp;Prestige collects about $400 per day from its affluent guests, compared to $170 at Norwegian, SunTrust Robinson Humphrey analyst Patrick Scholes said in a client note. 
“Our ships have some of the highest space-to-guest ratios in the industry and cater to very loyal and affluent customer base that is mostly shielded from the impact of recession and economic downturn,” Prestige Chief Executive Frank Del Rio said on a conference call Tuesday. After the deal he will remain chief of Prestige, which is now owned by private-equity firm Apollo Global Management. (Analysts believe Apollo, which owns a 23 percent stake in Norwegian, likely gained more by selling Prestige than taking the cruise line public.) 
Norwegian’s larger rivals already have upscale brands, with industry leader&nbsp;Carnival operating the Seabourn Cruise Line and Royal Caribbean Cruises&nbsp;courting luxury travelers through its Azamara Club Cruises.&nbsp;Oceania and Regent together have eight ships—more than Seabourn and&nbsp;Azamara combined—with about 6,500 berths; a new Regent ship is scheduled for delivery in 2015. 
The deal doesn’t come as a surprise. In an interview with Bloomberg Businessweek earlier this summer, Norwegian Chief Executive Kevin Sheehan described his immediate goal for the company as better financial returns and noted at the time that Norwegian’s board and private equity owners were open to acquisitions. Up until now Norwegian has sought to compete in the upscale segment of the market with luxury suites on its existing ships, an area it calls the Haven, but had difficulty luring well-heeled travelers in large numbers. On Tuesday, Sheehan said that the Regent and Oceania brands would give the company exposure to travel agents who serve the affluent.