Gold Pressured To 10-Week Low By Stronger U.S. Dollar, No Major Weekend Geopolitical Developments Gold Pressured To 10-Week Low By Stronger U.S. Dollar, No Major Weekend Geopolitical Developments (Kitco News)&nbsp;- Gold prices are solidly lower and hit a 10-week low in early U.S. trading Tuesday, amid a stronger U.S. dollar index that hit a 13-month high overnight, and on no major geopolitical flare-ups during the long U.S. holiday weekend. Technical selling pressure was also featured as pre-placed sell stop orders were triggered when prices breached chart support levels. December Comex gold was last down $19.50 at $1,267.80 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted down $19.00 at $1,268.75. December Comex silver last traded down $0.307 at $19.18 an ounce. 
It’s a big week for economic data points, with the highlights being Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting and Friday’s U.S. jobs report. The market place reckons the ECB is on the verge of announcing fresh monetary stimulus. And the U.S. jobs report will give the latest reading on the important non-farm payrolls growth, seen at up 220,000 in August.
	
								 
The OECD reported Monday that inflation in its 34 world member economies fell again, at 1.9% in July from 2.1% in June, year-on-year. The OECD said the slowing inflation rate reflects continued weak overall world economic growth. The report is yet another worrisome clue that deflationary price pressures are lurking in the entire world economic system. Such is a bearish factor that has contributed to the present downward trend in the raw commodity sector. 
On the geopolitical front, there were no major weekend developments in the Ukraine-Russia confrontation, in the eyes of the market place. The European Union is ratcheting up its sanctions on Russia this week. The markets showed very little reaction to news the U.S. launched air strikes against terrorists in Somali during the weekend.
								
										 
There is a hefty slate of U.S. economic data due out Tuesday, including the U.S. manufacturing PMI, construction spending, the IBD/TIPP economic optimism index, the ISM manufacturing report, and the global manufacturing PMI. 
Wyckoff’s Daily Risk Rating: 6.0 (The market place is still somewhat focused on the tensions between Russia and Ukraine but the situation has not changed much, in the eyes of the market place.) 
(Wyckoff’s Daily Risk Rating is your way to quickly gauge investor risk appetite in the world market place each day. Each day I assess the “risk-on” or “risk-off” trader mentality in the market place with a numerical reading of 1 to 10, with 1 being least risk-averse (most risk-on) and 10 being the most risk-averse (risk-off), and 5 being neutral. 
The London A.M. gold fix is $1,277.75 versus the previous P.M. fixing of $1,286.50.
										
										 
Technically, gold bears have the overall near-term technical advantage and gained fresh momentum Tuesday as prices hit a 10-week low. A seven-week-old downtrend is in place on the daily bar chart. The gold bulls’ next upside near-term price breakout objective is to produce a close above solid technical resistance at $1,300.00. Bears’ next near-term downside breakout price objective is closing prices below solid technical support at $1,250.00. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $1,275.00 and then at $1,280.00. First support is seen at Tuesday morning’s low of $1,265.70 and then at $1,260.00. 
December silver futures bears have the firm near-term technical advantage as prices hit a nearly three-month low Tuesday. Silver bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above solid technical resistance at $20.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at $19.00. First resistance is seen at $19.355 and then at the overnight high of $19.565. Next support is seen at the overnight low of $19.165 and then at $19.00. 
By Jim Wyckoff, contributing to Kitco News; jwyckoff@kitco.com Follow me on Twitter&nbsp;@jimwyckoff