Sensex at 27000: 3 reforms Modi govt must implement to ensure safety of investors Sensex at 27000: 3 reforms Modi govt must implement to ensure safety of investors It is conceded on all hands that the Indian secondary market is world class except that it suffers from the insidious and rampant insider trading. The primary market has been crying for reforms for a long time now, with more than 75 percent of the IPOs made during the last couple of years quoting below the offer price.
Gung ho economists aver that if investors burn their fingers, well it is their funeral.  One cannot, however, be so blasé about the issue especially in a country where the equity cult is yet to take deep roots.
The following are the main areas the finance minister Arun Jaitley should address in consultation with the market regulator Sebi:
 The public is no venture capitalist
Nothing has damaged the primary market more than allowing all companies – including the ones that have not even produced one unit of a product or service – to make IPOs under the 100 percent book building route. Experience shows that the qualified institutional buyers (QIBs), who participate in book building and discover the price, are no guarantee the company is deserving of patronage by the retail investors given the Indian mentality to follow pied piper like.
In other words, an unviable project does not become viable merely because QIBs have reposed faith in them. We must follow the US where no company can make an IPO unless it has had a track record of profits. Unfortunately, we have given this golden rule a goodbye with 100 percent book building lulling our policymakers as well as investors alike into complacency. For those not making profits, venture capital is what the doctor and the US have ordered.  Let us not cast our public in the role of venture capitalists for which they simply don’t have the stomach.
Make French auction model the norm
The book building process in India has invariably revolved around the Dutch auction model under which the lowest price at which the issue reserved for the QIBs gets fully subscribed is the cut-off point. The cut-off price applies to everyone uniformly including to those who bid a higher price as well as to the retail investors.
Under the French model, on the other hand, the QIBs participating in the book building exercise or the price discovery exercise have to pay the bid price unless it is lower than the cut-off price. To wit, if QIB A has bid for 10 lakh shares at Rs 500 each and QIB B too has bid for 10 lakh shares at Rs 400 each, and the cut-off price turns out to be Rs 300. Everyone in the game would be allotted shares at Rs 300, except QIB A and B who will have to stew in their own juice. In other words, they have to pay the price for aggressive bidding.
Under the Dutch auction everyone gets the shares at the cut-off price. Dutch auction might have been appropriate for tulips but it is hardly appropriate for shares. French auction would have a sobering effect on the auctioning process with the fear of having to pay the price for aggressive bidding halting the aggressive bidders on their tracks.
NTPC tried it when the government offered a sliver of its holdings to the public. The government admittedly did not rake in a lot of moolah but then offer for sale was hardly the occasion for experimenting with the French model. IPOs where public interest is paramount must be mandated to follow the French model if only to rein in cupidity on the part of the issuing companies as well as QIBs.
 Mandatory safety net
Under the extant safety net mechanism, a retail investor can compel promoters of companies to buy the shares subscribed by them in IPOs up to a maximum of 1,000 shares at the offer price only if the company has volunteered to do so. Small wonder, this mechanism remains only on paper.
The SEBI has promised to make it mandatory. This brooks no delay. Not only the promoters but also the merchant bankers and QIBs must be made to stand guard to buy the small investors out in case the market price dips below the offer price within six months.
Without these minimum reforms, retail investors should not be exposed to the vagaries of the equity investment. One thought the finance minister would roll out these reforms, minimal and well thought out as they are during the initial 100 days, supposed to be the honeymoon period for any government sworn into office. The honeymoon and the bonhomie that exist between the new government and the public makes even bitter pills palatable in larger public interest.
The existing regime leaves nothing in the plate for the retail investors by way of scope for making listing gains with its accent being on getting the maximum for the company making the IPO.
&nbsp;