Selling Used Cars Sight Unseen, With Free Delivery Selling Used Cars Sight Unseen, With Free Delivery 
                
                    As of Tuesday morning, the good people of Charlotte, N.C., can order a car the same way they order pizza. The only real difference is delivery takes a day or two and the vehicle, unlike the pie, can be financed.
                
            
            
                 
Carvana, the startup offering point-and-click car buying with speedy delivery, is takings its unusual approach to auto sales across the Southeast. At this point there are far more companies trying to disrupt the car-shopping process than there are companies making vehicles in the U.S. With no clear winner yet and remarkable fragmentation, Carvana’s usual approach might have promise. 
The startup proved to have a highly efficient sales engine in Atlanta, where it started selling cars early last year.&nbsp;Dealing exclusively in used cars, the&nbsp;general idea is straight out of the e-commerce playbook: cut out the middle-man. Without a showroom, bad coffee and a squad of salesmen, Carvana claims to&nbsp;sell cars for a lot less than old-fashioned dealerships. 
“The buyer saves about four hours of time and $1,500 in value,” Carvana&nbsp;Chief Executive Ernie Garcia said in an interview. “I’m convinced dealerships aren’t purposefully creating bad experiences, they just have huge cost structures they have to support.” 
Once a shopper finds a ride that they like, they can take a virtual tour online where any dings, scuffs or scratches are helpfully flagged. Clicking through, they can finance the car through Carvana, tack on a warranty, and schedule a delivery time. 
The fastest purchase recorded by Carvana so far took just 11 minutes, start to finish.&nbsp;The startup’s legions of rivals, including Edmunds.com and TrueCar, mostly seek to cutt out the haggling, not necessarily the trip to the dealership. 
Instead of test drives, Carvana offers a seven-day return window in which there is no penalty for sending back the car.&nbsp;About two percent of buyers back out during that time, but Garcia said that half of those customers simply buy a different vehicle from Carvana. 
Getting inventory isn’t a problem. The company buys from individual owners, rental car fleets, and auctions. Pricing isn’t an issue, either, given the highly fluid state of the current used-car market. 
The biggest challenge, according to Garcia, is convincing people it’s a good idea to order a car sight unseen. Carvana’s ability to court used-car buyers depends on just how effectively it can explain the advantages of its unusual sales model. &nbsp;“It takes some time for people to get comfortable with it,” Garcia&nbsp;admits. “But everyone who does it helps spread the word.” 
In Charlotte this week, Carvana is making its case with a fairly amusing TV commercial. The launch marks&nbsp;Carvana’s&nbsp;third market, alongside sales in Atlanta and Nashville. The company supports all three cities from a single facility in Georgia, where it reconditions cars before shipping them out to buyers. 
The company has been financed by DriveTime, a Phoenix-based network of used car dealerships, although Garcia says he has been talking to venture capitalists these days. 
And while Carvana has yet to turn a profit, Garcia expects to book $50 million in sales this year. With an average transaction price of $20,000 to $25,000, the startup will probably sell somewhere around 2,200 vehicles this year. That’s either pitifully small or a proof of concept—and either way it’s certainly enough to rattle the used-car dealers of Charlotte.