Forget Modi's past 100 days, it is the next 265 that are important Forget Modi's past 100 days, it is the next 265 that are important Talking about the performance of a government that is to rule for 5 f years, on the basis of 100 days, sounds quite out of place today to the point of not being rational. But this discussion has nonetheless come under the media glare.
It is, however, often believed that the first 100 days has more to say than what follows as it indicates the broad direction, energy and faith (the DEF factors) of what lies ahead. In this context, the performance of the government can be gauged in terms of what has been done and also misnomers that have been cleared based on popular perception.
The most important opinion voiced by the BJP has been that there is really no difference of opinion with the RBI. This has been under speculation for long as it was perceived that the RBI was being a bit intransigent in its stance against inflation before the new government came to power.
But, today it does appear that this perceived conflict was probably overstated and that the RBI would continue to be autonomous when it comes to taking decisions in the field of monetary policy.
The second most important stance taken by the government relates to its fiscal balances. The decision to continue to tread the path of fiscal consolidation is significant notwithstanding the fact that the FM has admitted that it will not be smooth sailing given the current state of fiscal balances. Therefore, it has refrained from taking two decisions.
The first is to go in for a higher deficit while earmarking this higher expenditure for infrastructure creation that can kick-start the economy. The second is to take a radical view on subsidies or any of the social programmes. In fact, they have been retained or strengthened.
Therefore, there has been continuity in the approach. The novel factor has been the opening of the door to more PPPs for taking on the large projects in railways or city building.
Let us see what all has been done in terms of economic policy. The government has started to pluck the low hanging fruits with alacrity.
First, there have been three changes in the labour laws, which though not radical, do placate the smaller firms in terms of ease of doing business.
Second, in the area of FDI, it has been opened up fully for railway infrastructure and partly in defence, which though keeps operations still outside the purview, is a welcome step. However, there has been no change in stance on FDI in retail and there has to be further consensus in the Rajya Sabha on getting FDI in insurance raised to 49%. Within the perimeter of action that can be taken without legislative consensus, the government has been able to express its willingness to open up.
Third, there have been some quick steps taken to spread financial inclusion with the Jan Dhan Scheme getting the impetus on 15th August.
Fourth, an expenditure management committee has been established to control expenses, which will be critical this year if we are to stick to the 4.1% fiscal deficit mark.
Fifth, divestment of public sector banks appears to be on to the extent of 49 percent as the government has spoken about being aggressive in this area given that over Rs 60,000 crore has to be raised through sale of public assets.
Sixth, the government has made the right sounds on the global stage by sticking to our stance on subsidies in the WTO deliberations and getting the BRICS Bank moving. There have been other peripheral announcements like the one pertaining to the closing down of the Planning Commission and replacing the same with a think-tank.
The government has hence quite clearly spelt out the direction for the economy going ahead, where focus will be more on getting things done rather than higher allocation of funds. This is something the UPA also spoke of like clearing projects held up which was to the tune of Rs 6 lakh crore in February.
By clubbing ministries under single ministers and focusing on cutting red tape, some of these administrative hurdles have been cleared. To the extent that governance issues and the bureaucracy have held back investment, one can expect positive changes. It does remain to be seen if the recent dispensation on coal block allocations could create some sense of apprehension in decision taking going ahead.
All these announcements and housekeeping done do open up the space for economic action, but do not bring about change on its own as it has been left to the private sector or FDI to react positively to these incentives. Given the fiscal constraints, it is understandable that this is the best way to keep things moving. Therefore, the next 265 days will be important as it will actually test the response to the government’s package.
On the economic front there have been positive developments, though some have been fortuitous to an extent. Our GDP growth in the first quarter has crossed the 5.5% mark, and with a bit of chance and traction could remain in this region during the year. Manufacturing growth which was negative last year has moved towards the 4% mark in the first quarter and this is good news for all.
The current account deficit has been under control at 1.7% for the first quarter and a stable rupee has added to the comfort. Higher capital flows through FII in both the equity and debt segments have contributed to this development which is good considering that the tapering impact of the QE programme which is lower by 70% has not really dented these flows.
The negative development, which is actually beyond the purview of any government, has been the monsoon impact on agriculture. There have been some moves to control hoarding and looking at a National Agriculture Market, but this is one area that can get irksome as inflation, which has been steady at a higher level could move higher in October in case specific crops fail.
Hence barring inflation, the general economic conditions look more encouraging than they did last year, which is a good cushion for the government that is trying to create an enabling environment for investment and economic activity. This appears to be the major takeaway from the first 100 days – we will provide you a friendly space to operate, but we cannot today actually spend the money.
The author is chief economist, CARE Ratings. Views are personal.