Tata Motors gains on slew of upgrades but Zest, Bolt key to India success Tata Motors gains on slew of upgrades but Zest, Bolt key to India success Shares of Tata Motors today gained nearly 3 percent after a slew of rating upgrades but the  profitability of the struggling domestic unit of Tata Motors, especially that of its passenger car division, depends on the success of the newly launched sedan Zest and the forthcoming roll out Bolt.
Shares were up 1.6 percent at Rs 524.60 rupees, approaching record high of 531.65 hit on August 28.
Morgan Stanley upgraded the stock to "overweight" from "equal-weight." Bank cited Tata Motor's "attractive" relative valuations and optimism about margins and volumes.
Jefferies also raised its rating on the stock to "buy" from "hold". Standard and Poor's also raised outlook to "positive" from "stable." Credit agency cited stronger performance of Tata unit Jaguar Land Rover.
Tata also said  on Tuesday it wins order for over 2,700 buses but success of domestic passenger vehicles depends on its  new Zest and Bolt models," Moody's said in a statement.
The company has Ba3 stable rating from the agency.
"If TML sells at least 15,000 units a month of the Zest and the Bolt combined, its market share of the passenger car segment would be about 10 percent and re-establish the standing of the car business," Moody's vice-president and senior credit officer Alan Greene said.
"Such a sales figure would be a phenomenal turnaround for the company. It sold an average of 6,300 cars a month in the first four months of the fiscal year," he added.
Tata Motors last month launched its first car in four years, in a bid to regain market share and plug losses in its domestic business. The Zest is priced at Rs 4.6 lakh and above and is available in diesel and petrol variants.
The compact sedan Zest competes with the established brands like Maruti D'zire, Honda Amaze and Hyundai Xcent. The company plans to launch the hatchback Bolt by the end of the year.
On the company’s credit profile, the agency sees the company demonstrating weaker consolidated credit metrics this fiscal, but does not see any downgrade as it global arm JLR looks to continue to report strong set of numbers, helping to retain the current high rating level.
JLR revenue rose 31 percent to 5.4 billion pounds, while Ebitda jumped 68 percent to 1.1 billion pounds in the June quarter, helping the parent report the best ever net income growth in the past nine quarters which rose nearly fourfold to Rs 5,398.21 crore for the three months to June.
Strong JLR sales helped boost the company's overall margins by a massive 550 bps to 20.3 per cent from 15.8 per cent a year ago, while margins at the domestic operations fell to minus 2.8 per cent from 2.3 per cent. Revenue from JLR jumped 54 per cent to Rs 54,425.97 crore.
With inputs from Agencies