Move over WPI, CPI: Producer Price Index, a more effective inflation matrix, is in the works Move over WPI, CPI: Producer Price Index, a more effective inflation matrix, is in the works Will the country finally get a more efficient indicator to capture general price inflation? Going by news reports, yes.
Work is underway to develop a Producer Price Index (PPI), which will track prices at the very first point of transaction, to replace the Wholesale Price Index (WPI), according to this report in The Economic Times. The task, says the report, has been entrusted to a committee headed by Prof. B. N. Goldar.
Most economists believe the move is long overdue and it is one more step towards making the way prices move more robust. Right now, the WPI tracks wholesale prices and the consumer price index (CPI) tracks retail prices. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) now takes the CPI as the headline index for inflation management (it used to be WPI at one time). Former RBI governor D. V. Subbarao had made a strong pitch for a shift to PPI in 2012.
The WPI, which tracks wholesale prices, has been seen as somewhat flawed for two main reasons. One, it does not cover services, which is the biggest contributor to gross domestic product (GDP). Two, it includes some taxes and levies – excise in the case of manufactured goods and mandi tax in the case of agricultural goods.
Internationally, PPI addresses both these shortcomings. It includes services and it reflects the prices realised by producers, free of distortions in the form of any government taxation or subsidy. "Conceptually, it is a very good idea," says Rupa Rege Nitsure, chief economist, Bank of Baroda.
S. S. Bhandare, advisor Tata Strategic Management Group, also feels that the WPI needs to be overhauled and it might be better to just replace it with a more broad-based PPI.
This is not the first initiative towards a PPI. In 2003, a committee headed by former Planning Commission member Abhijit Sen (he had not joined the commission then) to revise the WPI had seriously considered a shift to PPI. (The WPI is revised every 10 years, with the base year as well as the basket of goods it covers and the weights being changed.)
In those days, WPI used to be tracked on a weekly basis and was the index the RBI monitored for inflation management. According to Sen, the committee realised that it was important to move away from WPI as the headline inflation index to CPI. But since getting weekly CPI data is hugely problematic, the committee opted for recommending (apart from revising the base year from 1993-94 to 2004-05 and modifying the basket) that WPI be tracked on a monthly basis, which it has been since then.
When it came to working out a PPI, the committee faced two problems which, Sen notes, the new committee will also have to grapple with.
The first is that there is no index to track prices of services (the CPI does but at the retail level). An expert committee to create a services price index was set up in 2003. It has made some tentative estimates on a pilot basis, covering railways, road transport, postal services and banking, but the index is still work in progress, according to Shrawan Nigam who was economic advisor in the industry ministry when the expert committee was set up and is now a member of the committee. Collecting data from the services sector will be a huge challenge, says Nitsure, since a large chunk of it is in the unorganised sector.
The second problem in working out PPI that Sen flags is that of factoring in the price of intermediates that go into products into the final price. There used to be, he notes, an input-output matrix but that is not being updated regularly. The new committee, says Bhandare, will have to wrestle with this problem and come up with a solution for accurate tracking of producers’ price.
The Sen committee stayed away from the PPI because its primary task was to update the WPI based on 2004-05 prices. The WPI base is due for another revision and hopefully the Goldar committee will come up with a robust PPI by then.