Don't just blame Mallya: Kingfisher crisis a colossal stupidity of banks Don't just blame Mallya: Kingfisher crisis a colossal stupidity of banks Kingfisher Airlines and its flamboyant promoter Vijay Malaya alone are not to blame for the staggering NPA of Rs 7,000 crore inflicted on the banking system through willful defaults. Others cannot shirk their share of responsibility.
The fact is our legislators who make slack laws are as much to blame as violators of law and the one who looks the other side, albeit scrupulously, not sharing the spoils of the loot is as much to blame as the looter.
The clutch of banks which lent to Kingfisher not only were slack in their loan appraisal but also buried their heads like ostriches when a storm was brewing in the airline industry. Some of them happily swapped a part of their exposure for shares of Kingfisher at a premium vis-à-vis the then prevailing market price, either out of monumental ignorance and stupidity or for a quid pro quo.
The company law in India countenances diversion of funds by allowing a company to lend to other companies or invest in other companies up to a whopping 60 percent of its net worth or 100 percent of free reserves whichever is greater, and armed with the special resolution of shareholders any amount at all in excess of these limits. This is an open invitation to divert funds.
Decades ago, the RBI found to its amazement that the inter-corporate loans and investments of Ballarpur Industries Ltd was more than its investments in plant and machinery! One wonders if Kingfisher too adopted this time-tested stratagem of self-aggrandizement for sundry acts of showmanship like ownership of IPL cricket team, entertaining royalty and who is who of the world etc by its promoter.
In any case, the law should discourage inter-corporate dalliances which alone would compel promoters to cough up surplus cash as dividend rather than diverted through a maze of companies ultimately to find its way into the coffers of the disingenuous and cupid promoter.
To be sure, banks do include stringent conditions like bar on diversion of funds without their say-so etc but these are enforced more in breach than in compliance especially for the rich and powerful borrower with right connections.
No other law put a greater perverse premium on financial sickness, actual or contrived, as much as the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 did by mollycoddling such companies and calling upon creditors to bear the brunt.
Mercifully, Kingfisher could not enter its sanctuary given the fact that it was not an industrial company. The present law on corporate sickness is built into the Companies Act, 2013, and is modelled after the American Chapter 11, which is even handed and fair to all the sides.
One hopes creditors would petition the National Company Law Tribunal when it is ready and notified at the first hint of financial stress so that the problem is not allowed to fester.
Will heads roll in the banks as well or will they rest with the smug satisfaction that Kingfisher has been branded willful defaulter with its demeaning and financially crippling implications? Roll they must, because Kingfisher was a classic case of benign neglect on the part of banks.
They knew it did not deserve the loans in the first place much less the periodic rescheduling. The icing on the cake, of course, was conversion of loans with interest into equity partially.
All these testify to monumental stupidity or political support or as is more likely combination of both. Only the heads of bank executives can roll given the fact that our politicians pull strings unobtrusively from a safe distance, leaving no trace of their involvement.