For N. Korea, ISIS, U.S. Prisoners Are Up For Sale If Price Is Right For N. Korea, ISIS, U.S. Prisoners Are Up For Sale If Price Is Right North Korea and ISIS, the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, have a lot in common. 
As two of the most terrifying regimes on earth, they think they can spread images of suffering as bait for intimidating their own people as well as the U.S. and other governments.
	
								 
Until recently, the DPRK, Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, would have seemed the more brutal of the two considering the gulag system to which hundreds of thousands of North Koreans are consigned to work until they’re killed from overwork, disease, torture or formal execution. 
Lately, however, ISIS has outdone the North Koreans by beheading and other forms of torture. The beheading of journalists James Foley and now Steven Sotloff has shocked the world as evidence of the barbarism of the jihadists who control vast swaths of Syria and northern Iraq.
								
										 
By contrast, the North Koreans seem quite civilized. Rather than threaten to kill three American tourists for falling afoul of their rules, they’ve displayed them in interviews with CNN and the Associated Press pleading for some American elder statesman to bring them home. 
Whether threatening the most brutal form of execution or lengthy hard labor, ISIS and the DPRK share a basic strategy. That is to hold up the Americans in their clutches for the world to see on television and the internet and then carry out dastardly threats against them. 
The two American journalists captured by ISIS had been in their custody for months, enduring fake executions while ISIS made impossible demands for vast sums of money, release of prisoners and a cessation of bombing. 
In return for freeing the three Americans tourists, arrested while in the North on simple tourist trips, the North Koreans are asking for recognition – that is, affirmation that North Korea is important enough for a top-ranking American to come and pick them up.
										
										 
It’s as though by showing these three, the missionary, Kenneth Bae, convicted of trying to undermine the regime by spreading Christian literature and given a 15-year sentence, and the two others, James Edward Fowle and Matthew Todd Miller, facing trial,&nbsp; North Koreans is inviting some prominent American to come and get them. 
After all, that’s what Bill Clinton did five years ago when he flew into Pyongyang with a coterie of advisers and met the late Kim Jong-il for a three-hour lunch. Having gone through the wining and dining, Clinton and Co. left with TV journalists Laura Ling and Euna Lee, who’d been picked up along the TumenRiver border while filming for Current TV.&nbsp; “Bubba Brings Home the Chicks,” headlined the New York Post. 
Then, four years ago, Jimmy Carter came to the rescue of Aijalon Gomes, an itinerant English teacher who’d walked across the river into North Korea. His mission, he said, was to find Robert Park, an impassioned missionary who had also walked into North Korea with a demand that Kim Jong-il free all political prisoners and then step down.&nbsp; Gomes was serving an eight-year sentence when Carter picked him up and flew out with him. 
Among the high-profile prisoners held by North Korea, only Park seems to have been tortured before he was freed. He won’t say exactly what the North Koreans did but has told me that he endured extreme forms of torture, suffers from post-traumatic stress and still considers suicide though he’s written dozens of articles as he crusades against “genocide” of North Koreans by North Koreans. 
Both ISIS and North Korea show off their foreign prisoners as though they were high-priced items whom they’ll sell off if the price is right. &nbsp;While Jihadists have indeed let go of other prisoners, they may think the shock value of executions on video will gain them adherents among Islamic extremists worldwide, notably in the UK and the US. 
North Korea’s demands are high but not so extreme. All three of the Americans they’re holding are pleading for some high-level American to pick them up. 
“This is an opportunity for maybe Bill Clinton to come back,” Fowle told CNN in the five minutes he was interviewed. “Maybe George W. Bush, it’s his turn as an elder statesman to try his hand. I’d appreciate any help that they could lend to help resolve our cases and bring us home.” 
  How hard a bargain the North Koreans will make is not clear. Would they release the three one at a time, on three separate visits by former presidents, or all at once? And would they settle for a visit by lesser figures – maybe Bill Richardson, the former New Mexico governor and UN ambassador, who’s been to North Korea a number of times. 
In the meantime, the foreigners whom North Korea is holding have generally had almost privileged treatment. &nbsp;Fowle and Miller remain in their hotel rooms while Bae reportedly is watched by doctors and guards as the lone prisoner in their custody. Working eight hours a day, in ill health, he’s still going to survive. 
By producing all three for interviews, the North Koreans were showing off the goods – deemed too valuable for political and diplomatic purposes to lose. That’s not a priority for ISIS, which sees making an example of the hideous deaths of some of its prisoners as its own reward.