Check this out: Your bank maybe charging you for a home loan cover you didn't want Check this out: Your bank maybe charging you for a home loan cover you didn't want If you buy a home on a loan, the property is in the bank’s name until you pay off the entire loan. In case you die during the term of the loan, and your family isn’t able to pay the remaining equated monthly instalments (EMIs), your family stands to lose the house. Hence many financial planners suggest that a home loan borrower should take another term plan with the death benefit amount which would cover the home loan, so that your family is not left high and dry.
In fact, due to this many lenders insist that you buy a life insurance policy from their preferred insurer. And, if you are taking the home loan insurance as a bundled offer with your home loan, make sure you are not being charged, for something you haven't really signed in for. Surprised? Don't be, because that happens.
As per an incident mentioned in the Reserve Bank of India’s latest report on banking ombudsman, a bank actually took a loan borrower for a ride in his home loan insurance policy.
Case study: A loan borrower had availed a home loan from a bank, and when the loan was sanctioned he was also made to take a insurance policy. He was told that he had to pay the premium of the policy only once. But, in reality, the bank kept deducting the premium every year from his account. He was shocked when he noticed the deductions and raised the issue with the bank. That didn't help much. Finally, he approached the ombudsman, who further looked into the matter.
The bank maintained its stance that the premiums were deducted with concurrence of the borrower to protect his heirs from the incident of the loan liability in case of the borrower's death during the term of the loan. The ombudsman asked the bank to provide the necessary documents. The bank said they had advised the borrower verbally and hence did not have a documented mandate.
The baking ombudsman inferred that the bank was clearly at fault and asked to refund the insurance charges as neither a mandate was taken from the borrower, nor was he informed in writing before taking the insurance policy.
What we can learn: Taking an additional life insurance policy just to cover the home loan amount is really a good idea. But it is better if you buy a separate term cover for the same, and not a bundled product from the bank. And if you have already done so, make sure you are not paying more premiums than you ought to. Check if you are being charged as per the written mandate. As in the case above, you don't want the bank to assume a verbal agreement. And finally, never be shy of approaching the ombudsman if your bank fails to resolve the issue.