Success Tips From An American Who's Done Well In China Success Tips From An American Who's Done Well In China American architect Ben Wood knows something about success in China. The colorful Georgia native is closely associated with Shanghai’s Xintiandi shopping district developed by Hong Kong billionaire Vincent Lo and other spirited cultural and architecture projects in the country. Now 64, the MIT graduate last week gave a talk in Shanghai to an expat group about finding success in China and life.&nbsp; Excerpts follow. 
I grew up in America’s Deep South. &nbsp;My mother used to tell me when I was digging in the sandbox in the backyard of our rural Georgia home that if I make the hole deep enough, I would be in China.&nbsp; In 1998, I looked down, and the hole was deep enough.
	
								 
I’ve been living and working in China for over 16 years.&nbsp; China has been good to me. &nbsp;Whenever my Chinese colleagues ask me about my career and why I have been successful,&nbsp;&nbsp;I answer by saying that if you want interesting projects you need to find interesting clients. &nbsp;The best way to do that is be interesting yourself: not just a good architect but able to talk about many things other than architecture. 
I spend most of my time in my design studio with young Chinese architects who do not know what they do not know.&nbsp; They do not lack professional skills; they lack life experience. &nbsp;I tell them two things to do tomorrow.&nbsp; No. 1: &nbsp;Get a passport and travel. I would give this same advice to over 80% of Americans. No. 2: &nbsp;Pick a rule and break it.&nbsp; Any rule as long as it is a government rule but hopefully not one that pertains to ideology.
								
										 
&nbsp;As an architect and urban planner, I am in the idea business.&nbsp; My ideas come from a life full of adventure:&nbsp; attending a segregated elementary school, flying as a jet fighter pilot at age 23, working as a ski mountaineering instructor, becoming a law school dropout, holding a degree in civil engineering, owning many bars and restaurants, fathering two wonderful children, &nbsp;divorcing, becoming a recording artist with MGM records at age 17, and flying of three &nbsp;million miles on AA and three million more on UA. I opened the first British Morgan sports car dealership in China three years ago. Life is an adventure or it is nothing. 
I tell new clients all the drawings we do for the project are free. It is our ideas that you will pay for by sharing with us your intellect, your vision, and some of your time and money. 
&nbsp;This approach has worked well for us for the past 16 years. 

 
 Ben Wood at his desk in Xintiandi, Sept. 3, 2014.
										
										
 
– Follow me on Twitter @rflannerychina