Discover The New Luxury: Local, Authentic And Curated Discover The New Luxury: Local, Authentic And Curated The Hunt Guides are rather special. Beautifully produced and perfect-bound, they are the ideal size to slip into a pocket or handbag, and what’s within them is equally special: a genuine insider’s list of hotels, restaurants, museums and boutiques. While the Hunt destination list covers some of the world’s major cities, such as New York and Singapore, it also includes some (perhaps) less obvious choices, such as Frankfurt and Austin, reflecting the genuinely individual and curated nature of the content. The third edition of the Hunt London was personally compiled by David Leppan, who probably knows more than most about luxury; he is chairman of Wealth-X, the leading provider of intelligence on ultra-high-net-worth individuals – his other companies include Billionaire.com, the online luxury lifestyle and philanthropy platform, and Gatehouse Publishing, which produces the Hunt Guides. The Hunt London is restricted to just over 100 independent venues which Leppan feels are genuinely worth the visit. His standards are high and reflect his personal passion for authentic luxury – and the artisans who create it. 

 
 David Leppan: a passion for authentic luxury
	
								
 
So: where does the authentic heart of London lie? 
The Hunt Guide to London is a labour of love …
								
										 
“I said I’d love to do it and it took the team by surprise. I thought it would give me a good insight into how much work goes into one of our guides – what the process is like. There were a number of wry smiles that the boss’s boss would be reporting in to everybody! It was a fabulous project. I did underestimate the amount of work, but I loved it; I loved showcasing the things I value and love when I’m in London. As a born salesperson I have always pitched what I believe in and buy into – and this was an opportunity to take it to a larger audience. I would love to think – well, in fact I know it’s the case – that I’m not the only one out there who enjoys a true insider’s guide, one that taps into my passions and interests, into authentic luxury. I think luxury has been hijacked over the years by brands selling, say, thousands of raincoats and presenting that as ‘luxury’. What I think of as luxury is more likely to be fifth-generation handmade. I’ve felt like this since an early age; a friend’s father restored classic cars and proceeded to explain to me how a beautiful Rolls-Royce was built. Handmade, genuine, multi-generational luxury exists to this day and I like to think that there are still people out there who are interested in the authentically luxurious – and in supporting the remaining artisans.” 
The Hunt Guides seek out interesting destinations and tap into local knowledge 
“We are in the process of rolling out many more titles, so the current list is by no means the be-all and end-all – but to a degree it is down to where we know somebody who’s in tune with what we’re about. Sometimes an opportunity presents itself; Frankfurt was chosen because of its book fair, where we found an enormous number of booklovers scratching their heads and wondering where to go in the city. Book publishers are certainly a group we’d want to tap into: they are looking for the authentic, genuine side of a city and are often adventurers. Austin is one of the hottest cities in the United States; it’s a live music capital, it has shown itself to be focused on the local, the authentic, the organic – it has a long history of being a slightly alternative city.” 
I try to follow through on my principles in all my companies
										
										 
“At the heart of the Billionaire.com lifestyle publication lies philanthropy. We went about this thinking how we could track the new mega-rich and set up a lifestyle publication, but every third or fourth feature is about philanthropy. You could certainly argue that being concerned about other people is part of the new definition of luxury. Also it’s about supporting artisans, making people aware of what they should drink, eat, where they should be staying. It’s directed at a slightly different audience from the Hunt Guides, one who is very much on an adventure into the west to discover its culture and history. One of my first businesses was World-Check, which offered a database of terrorists, arms dealers, money launderers, corrupt politicians. It was incredibly successful because of bad people in the world; yes, we were making their lives more difficult, but at the same time we were gaining financially. So we started supporting SOS Children and generally being involved in a number of charities. Movember was one that we chose to support through the Hunt Guides.” 
Doing good and thinking local are the future 
“Large, global brands wouldn’t want a trend to run against their organisation so they want to be seen as doing some good in the world. It has an impact on their bottom line because it costs money – but does it also have an impact on their bottom line because it encourages more people to buy from them? Maybe. But in the future we will all want to support brands that do good. Many high-end brands, especially Italian ones such as Tod’s, Gucci and Diesel, have chosen to do something rather than do nothing because they feel it’s the right thing to do. Duchy is a fabulous example in the UK, encouraging organic brands and supporting the Prince’s Trust. And local is great; we have to get back to local being appreciated for what it is. As we head at speed towards a post-petroleum world, the concept of shipping bananas or plastic components across the world will change radically. We’ll face almost a second industrial revolution in the UK and US; jobs will come back as we realise we need to support more that is home-grown; local farmers, local craftsmen.” 
The unique London locals I wouldn’t miss if I just had one day to spend in the city 
“A pre-breakfast stroll through Hyde Park, then breakfast at the Connaught. I would then go to Number One London, Apsley House. I love pocket-sized museums and it has a remarkable Spanish collection of art. Then lunch at Scott’s on Mount Street. Late afternoon I’d possibly be at the Wolseley, and almost certainly at the Berkeley for tea, which would drag on into drinks at the Blue Bar. And if I didn’t stay for drinks, I’d go to Leighton House, another pocket-sized museum; you can drop in for 30 minutes and be reminded just how unique London is!”