FedEx Latest Company Slammed Over "Independent" Employees FedEx Latest Company Slammed Over "Independent" Employees For years, companies have increasingly created structures and mechanisms that turned people who once might have been employees into independent contractors. but courts and regulators have begun to more critically examine such relationships. The franchise industry was just shaken when the National Labor Relations Board chief counsel said that McDonald’s is the joint employer of its franchisees’ workers. That potentially puts big corporations on the firing line for questionable management practices that the overall business relationship can encourage in franchisees. 
Now FedEx and the trucking and delivery industry received their small seismic event. An appeals court ruled that thousands of purportedly independent FedEx Ground drivers between 2000 and 2007 (before FedEx changed the contracting model) were actually employees.
	
								 
 
&nbsp;
								
										 
Whether they create franchise structures, have groups of employees officially work from third-party contractors, or send work out to gig-work job boards, corporations hope to spark self-interest in customer service that employees may not feel to the same degree. At least, that’s part of the picture. Another, likely larger, portion is that the businesses want to employ a growing number of legal mechanisms to isolate themselves from many legal obligations of having employees. Corporations have cut tax and workers compensation bills, reduced regulatory paperwork, and, often, offloaded traditional operating expenses onto others. 
In the 2000s, FedEx Ground drivers in multiple states filed suit, leading to a consolidated action that charged the company with falsely categorizing many of them as independent contractors. Although a district court largely sided with FedEx, a three-judge panel at the US Court of Appeals for the Ninth District reversed the ruling, according to the decision. 
FedEx has appealed the ruling to the full court. If it wins the appeal, that would also leave the potential for either side to ask the Supreme Court for a review. If not, FedEx could be potentially liable for many millions in back expenses and even overtime wages. 
“A conservative estimate of FedEx’s exposure would be $250 million to $300 million excluding the mandatory attorney fees,” said Beth Ross, lead counsel for the California plaintiffs and a partner with labor law firm Leonard Carder, in a phone conversation with me. “The court found these drivers are employees by a matter of law … if you look at the facts in the most favorable light to FedEx.” That doesn’t even count any additional problems the company might face from federal or state tax authorities.
										
										 
In a statement, FedEx Ground Senior Vice President and General Counsel Cary Blancett said, “We fundamentally disagree with these rulings, which run counter to more than 100 state and federal findings – including the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit – upholding our contractual relationships with thousands of independent businesses.” 
In the previous appeals case from 2009, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters wanted to represent so-called single route drivers. The D.C. Circuit applied a novel and controversial “entrepreneurial test” it had created to look at opportunity. The court chose not to use the traditional ten-factor analysis of whether workers were truly independent or actually employees, with its heavy emphasis on who controls the employee’s time and working methods and conditions. 
As law professor Jeffrey Hirsch wrote at the time:  

 I’m no fan of the right-to-control test, particularly given that it often betrays its roots as a vicarious liability analysis, rather than a test for employee or independent contractor. Pushing entrepreneurial opportunity is obviously one way around some of the problems with focusing on the right to control. That said, the D.C. Circuit’s application of its test here–in particular, its reliance on potential entrepreneurial opportunity rather than actual opportunity–is troubling. If this test gets more legs, we’re going to see a lot more corporate policies ostensibly allowing for entrepreneurial opportunity, even where such opportunity is virtually non-existent in reality.
 
What the 9th Circuit did was to apply the more traditional measure. Judge Stephen Trott, a Reagan appointee in a concurring opinion, quoted Abraham Lincoln: “‘If you call a dog’s tail a leg, how many legs does a dog have?’ His answer was, ‘Four. Calling a dog’s tail a leg does not make it a leg.’” Trott also admonished FedEx for presenting some information out of context and told the company’s lawyers that they “would be well advised not to elide the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.” 

 Bottom line? Labeling the drivers “independent contractors” in FedEx’s Operating Agreement does not conclusively make them so when viewed in the light of (1) the entire agreement, (2) the rest of the relevant “common policies and procedures” evidence, and (3) California law. As [Majority decision author Judge William Fletcher' points out, the [lower court] decision to the contrary relied on an inappropriate consideration: the entrepreneurial opportunities factor.
 
The new FedEx approach seems more likely to survive a court’s scrutiny. The drivers continue to be employees, just of another company. But there can still be a price to pay when companies in general outsource their employees to contracting firms to avoid legal duties that they’d otherwise have. Someone still has to pay for workers’ comp and the employer part of Social Security, unemployment, and other forms of payroll taxes. There is still equipment to buy and maintain and overhead, plus the profits of the contracting company. 
As for employees who suddenly turn into business owners overnight, a former employer may offer compensation that might sound good, but that an experienced businessperson would know to be insufficient to run a company. 
Between 2000 and 2007, FedEx Ground drivers in California were paid $85,000 to $90,000 a route, according to Ross. “That’s what a UPS driver earns in wages before the benefits package,” she said. “These drivers are left with $45,000, maybe $50,000, no health insurance, no retirement for working 55 plus hours a week.” 
I also spoke with John Chapman, a FedEx Ground contractor in California who initial started with RPS, the package delivery service founded in 1985 that FedEx acquired in 1998. He said that the amount for a single route sounded roughly accurate for the time. “At that time period, if you had a single truck, it would have been a struggle for you and the reason the guys did it was the hope that they’d get the second truck and second route and then the third,” he said. “They saw guys who did that. Then they’re not driving and it’s the reward for doing a good job. But if they stayed with it, just about everyone managed to get another route and truck and moved on up.” 
But how many were or are able to stay with it is the question. Many people aren’t good entrepreneurial material. For the ones who hang on and move ahead, there are the others who can’t. 
That’s why the continued pushing away of employees by corporations is problematic. It would like saying everyone has to become a dentist, no matter the level of native talent or inclination. Only, when someone is forced to be an entrepreneur for a single company, they aren’t really running businesses. They may be only helping to offload costs. Without a different direction for society, what happens to them is economic Darwinism, only not conveniently, quietly, and safely in the past. 
Image: Flickr user Rob Young