India second largest country to send students to US, but here's why you shouldn't cheer India second largest country to send students to US, but here's why you shouldn't cheer Even as India stood at the second largest country to send most number of students to US during 2008-2012 after China, many schools, which absorbed these students were either unaccredited or have closed down since then, according to a study by American think tank, Brookings Institution.
According to the report, these schools have been closed down for allegedly engaging in Visa-related frauds. During the period, about 15 per cent of the total students arrived in US was from India, after China 25 percent.
“Some of these schools have been closed down because they were abusing the (student) visa system and the Curricular Practical Training program to bring students to work for employers, rather than primarily to study for a degree programme,” the report said.

Most of these students ended up going to these institutions, according to the report, were from Hyderabad.
The top five destination schools of F-1 students from Hyderabad are institutions with no major research activity under the Carnegie classification system, the report said.
The largest among them was International Technological University (ITU), a non-profit accredited Master’s Medium-Sized College with no research activity.
Other such institutes included, University of Northern Virginia (unaccredited and shut down by Department of Homeland Security (DHS)), Stratford University (accredited), Tri- Valley University (unaccredited and shut down by DHS) and Herguan University (unaccredited).
Going by the report, unlike Hyderabad students, students from Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore went to relatively well-known universities, such as Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Southern California.
Hyderabad number one
According to the report, Hyderabad is the number one city in India and number four in the world to send students to US for higher education. The report notes that Hyderabad sent more students to the US than New Delhi and Mumbai combined.
Hyderabad sent 26,220 students to the US in 2008-2012, followed by Mumbai(17,294 students), Chennai(9,141), Bangalore(8,835) and Delhi (8,728).
Ninety-four foreign cities together accounted for more than half of all students on an F-1 visa between 2008 and 2012. Seoul, Beijing, Shanghai, Hyderabad and Riyadh are the five foreign cities that sent the most higher education students to the United States during that time, says the report.
Besides Hyderabad, three other cities from the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh made it to the Brookings list are Secunderabad, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam.
From India's own neighborhood, Bangladesh (5319) has almost as many students in the US as Pakistan (curiously low at 5767). But the real surprise is Nepal, which got nearly 20,000 F-1 visas, compared to Sri Lanka's 4113.

Overall, Indian students ponied up more than $ 5 billion in the 2008-2012 period to study in the US ($ 3.1 billion in tuition fees and $ 2 billion in living expenses).
However, Mumbai spent more than Hyderabad in foreign studies. According to the report, while Mumbai spent $654,877,275 in 2008-2012, Hyderabad spent $645,598,871.