Helping a Korean Electronics Giant Stay Nimble Helping a Korean Electronics Giant Stay Nimble A Series of Forbes Insights Profiles of Thought Leaders Changing the Business Landscape: &nbsp;Young Sohn, President&nbsp;and chief strategy officer for Samsung Electronics… 
Young Sohn considers himself a Silicon Valley guy. He’s lived there 31 years, worked at Intel during the early, heady days, helped launch start-ups and taken them public. Now he’s president and chief strategy officer at Samsung Electronics, the Korean-owned consumer electronics giant.
	
								 
Having worked at both small and big companies, Young is well aware of the role both play in innovation and developing new products. His mission is to bridge those two worlds to keep Samsung at the leading edge of technology. 
“What we are trying to do is reach out to the innovations that are happening in the start-up community,” he says. “So we are in touch with many, many start ups and universities.”
								
										 

 
 Young Sohn, President and Chief Strategy Officer, Samsung
 
He sees his job as applying all the learning from smaller firms “to shape a large company that been successful to think differently.” 
Samsung, he adds, “can be more global, more nimble, adopt the outside idea much quicker, and in the process create new business without being caught up in the classic innovator dilemma issues.” 
The innovator dilemma, a theory widely attributed to Harvard professor and businessman Clayton Christensen, suggests that successful companies can fall behind if they focus too much on customers’ current needs and don’t adopt new strategies or technologies to meet future needs.
										
										 
“So I’m thinking how do you impact peoples’ lives for the better?” Young says. “That’s the problem I want to work on personally. I’ve been diving into things like can we apply the innovation and strength of IT in a health area where we’re all worried about aging and chronic disease and increasing cost.” 
One of the things Young is working on is improving communication between people and machines, which includes gesture and eye movement recognition. 
“It’s a big area,” he says. “ You can imagine from bio-authentication all the way to natural language, and in between there are a whole bunch of other things that need to happen. 
“We also think about security and privacy issues,” he continues. “Imagine all your personal information, particularly your vital signs, are going to be picked out on your signal, and you need to think what that means. And I really believe that your vital signs should be your data, not someone else’s data.” 
Using an old-world analogy, Young likens the role of data centers to a bank. 
“We may have all that information for you, but the money belongs to you,” he says. “The bank doesn’t own it. So data should be owned by you.” 
If anything, companies should be figuring out ways to combine data to make it more useful to consumers, a concept he likens to fusion cooking. 
“Much of the data today is in a silo, which has its own advantage,” Young says. “But many times, when you’re combining the data, there’s a power that comes out, just like the food.” 
  Young could be considered a classic American success story. He grew up in South Korea, but during junior high school, his mother decided to emigrate to the U.S. 
“My father passed away, so my mother said: ‘Gee, the only way a woman can raise the family is in a country like the USA because in Korea, women have a tough time getting a job.’” 
He ended up going to high school in suburban Washington, DC, where he was—as his own son now describes him–an “off the boat kind of immigrant.” 
“I think I was only the second of two Asian kids in the whole school—me and my brother,” he says. “The teacher paid special attention to us. She came in an extra hour early so that she could teach me English, and that helped a lot to encourage me and do well in school.” 
Young then enrolled in the University of Pennsylvania for his undergraduate degree. There was not a lot of debate about what he would study. 
“My mother basically said: ‘You’re going to be an engineer, right? Get a job?” Young recalls. 
He went to MIT for his graduate degree, worked at Hewlett Packard as an engineer and started his own company, which “didn’t go that well” and was eventually sold. 
Having a business failure, Young now says, “was one of the best educations I got—better than MBA school.” 
In 1983, Young joined Intel and moved to Silicon Valley, where he’s been ever since. 
He worked closely with the “Intel Trinity”—Robert Noyce, Gordon Moore and Andy Grove—who built Intel into one of the world biggest computer chip makers. 
“You learn so much by working with them, and particularly Andy Grove, who was CEO,” Young recalls. “He’s such a smart guy. He can finish your sentence for you and he can read your mind before you can speak up.” 
Around that time, Intel and Samsung were considering a joint venture in semiconductors. Young became the translator in those discussions. 
“So I just happened to be at the right place and got to know them at the other side of the table,” Young says. 
Even though Young eventually left Intel to head up various smaller companies, the relationship with Samsung continued. Young joined the Korean giant in 2012 as chief strategy officer. 
“I think the role didn’t exist before,” Young says. “I think the company wanted to reach out to the global market to change—what we call the innovators’ dilemma. You know, any successful company has this issue of how do you innovate within, how do you change? And the more successful you are, the bigger the challenge you have. Mainly because success makes it much harder to change.” 
Bruce H. Rogers is the co-author of the&nbsp;recently published&nbsp;book&nbsp;Profitable Brilliance: How Professional Service Firms Become Thought Leaders