Surrealist Shopping: Project Windows Gives Chicago Residents A Taste Of Magritte Surrealist Shopping: Project Windows Gives Chicago Residents A Taste Of Magritte Even those who aren’t well versed in art know the work of Surrealist artist Ren&eacute; Magritte. Who can forget his self-portrait, The Son of Man, which shows Magritte wearing a bowler hat with an green apple floating in front of his face. A career survey of his work, Magritte: The Mystery of the Ordinary 1926-1938 is currently on view through October 13 at the Art Institute of Chicago, and to get the city involved, the museum tapped 50 retailers — including Crate &amp; Barrel, Anthropologie, Marc Jacobs, Ralph Lauren, Michael Kors, Jack Spade, Burberry and AT&amp;T — to celebrate Magritte’s work through their window displays for Project Windows 2014. 

	
								 
“Magritte worked in advertising before he even began working in Surrealism, and his earliest collage work, especially you can see that influence already,” said Elizabeth McGoey, research associate in the Department of Medieval to Modern European Painting at the Art Institute of Chicago. “Magritte created illustrations for a fur catalog, so in some of the collages you can actually see reference to that. He worked as a designer in a wallpaper factory, so that decorative quality of his work, that really striking legibility in his work speaks to his background in advertising.” 

								
										 
Each retailer had a different take on Magritte’s art; H&amp;M topped their mannequins’ heads with bowler hats, Macy’s placed The False Mirror, a painting of an eye with a cloudy sky in the pupils, over mannequins’ faces, and Marc Jacobs placed a mannequin before a fireplace with a cloudy sky in the middle. With Project Windows, even those who won’t make it to the Art Institute of Chicago to see the exhibition can get a taste of Magritte’s work by seeing it reinterpreted in the shop windows. 
 
“The Project Windows was great, also in part because the Surrealists who were all interested in the mind, and the wanderings of the mind, and the unconscious mind, were also wedded in and believed in collaboration,” said McGoey. “We see that in their work. Surrealism is just rife for really great programming.”
										
										 
Magritte: The Mystery of the Ordinary 1926-1938 is on view at the Art Institute of Chicago through October 13.