Eric Cantor, The Ice Bucket Challenge And The Rise Of Smaller Investment Banks Eric Cantor, The Ice Bucket Challenge And The Rise Of Smaller Investment Banks Ken Moelis is having a good year. He is the CEO of a small independent investment bank that focuses on advising corporate transactions and there is a mergers and acquisitions boom going on. Earlier this year, Moelis took his firm, Moelis &amp; Co., public without really giving up any control and the stock is up 37%. Moelis and his family own shares in the firm worth hundreds of millions of dollars. 
Moelis &amp; Co., announced on Tuesday that it had landed a high-profile new employee: Former House Majority Leader Eric Cantor. Moelis &amp; Co.’s new vice-chairman and managing director will get a $3.4 million pay package between September and the end of 2015. The general feeling has been that Cantor is cashing-in, but on Wall Street the news says a lot more about Moelis and the rise of smaller investment banks.
	
								 
While big rivals like Goldman Sachs deal with the breakdown of their key trading businesses, smaller and more nimble players like Moelis have been eating their lunch and enjoying the fruits of the deal frenzy that has swept Wall Street. For a while this year, one man, former Morgan Stanley investment banker Paul Taubman, was scoring big advisory work all by himself until he finally decided to open his own boutique shop and hired a bit of help. This isn’t the first time that some Wall Street watchers believed smaller investment banks would increase their power at the expense of the big firms. But similar expectations immediately following the financial crisis faded thanks to big fixed-income trading revenues. Still, smaller investment banks are starting to show some swagger. 
With the summer winding down at the end of August, Rich Handler, the CEO of Jefferies Group, filmed himself doing the ice bucket challenge in a video that was watched across Wall Street. In his video, Handler took off his Jefferies T-shirt, challenged one of his big clients, billionaire Carl Icahn, the rapper Pitbull and two other CEOs before dunking in his ice-filled bathtub.
								
										 
Handler was helping to raise money and awareness for ALS, but he was also clearly having a lot of fun. For Handler the good times continued this week as Jefferies reported a huge increase in profits, earning $82 million in its fiscal third-quarter, up from $12 million in the same period a year earlier. So far this is a record year for Jefferies, which has posted net earnings of $256 million on $2.5 billion of revenues in the first nine months of its current fiscal year. “These preliminary results represent the best third quarter and the best first nine-months Jefferies has achieved in our 50-year history,” Handler said triumphantly in a statement.&nbsp; “We continue to expand our client reach and believe we are gaining market share across the board.” 
Former politicians have been landing at financial firms for decades. But Cantor’s decision could represent a slight shift in power on Wall Street. For years, private equity shops and hedge funds have been the destination of choice for high-profile people leaving government. Even recently, Tim Geithner, the former Treasury Secretary, joined Warburg Pincus. 
The private equity billionaire who helped popularize this trend years ago, Carlyle Group co-founder David Rubenstein, found it relatively inexpensive to secure high-profile Washington talent. More often than not, the purpose of hiring former federal lawmakers, and even presidents, was to help with client retention and fund-raising as opposed to lobbying or influencing Washington. The Carlyle Group has largely stopped the practice, but other financial firms have taken the baton.
										
										 
For Moelis, it didn’t cost that much in Wall Street terms to secure Cantor. Cantor’s job will be to impress clients and maybe even use his Washington experience and connections to win some new clients. The hire might indicate the extent of Moelis’ ambitions to build the next Blackstone.