Five Ways the New iPhone Will Be A Game-Changer Five Ways the New iPhone Will Be A Game-Changer 1. In about a week Apple is expected to announce its newest iPhone, and like almost every other journalist in America I am punching the air with joy. 
That’s because it means for the next week or two we won’t have to do any actual work. We all know that you will click on pretty much any story so long as it has the words “Apple” or “iPhone” in the headline.
	
								 
Why? I have no idea. But you will. See? You clicked on this one too. You can’t help yourself. 
If Apple also launches an “iWatch” next week, look out world. Christmas will have come early. We’ll write about nothing else for months.
								
										 
Once at the Wall Street Journal I spent a week working on an incredibly involved and complex story about something important going on in the insurance industry. I think about 50 people read it. I also once spent an hour and a half writing “Ten Reasons I Don’t Want An iPad For Christmas,” and about half a million people read it. Seriously. People came up to me two years later and said, “Wow – I actually remember that story!” 
We’re all online journalists these days. We need to get the clicks. Warren Buffett’s right-hand man, Charlie Munger, once commented, “show me the incentives and I’ll show you the outcome.” Do I need to draw you a diagram? 
2. We also know you can’t resist the word “game-changer,” especially whenever it’s applied to an Apple product. 
I think it may now actually be illegal in some states to write about the next iPhone without using the word “game-changer.” Why do people keep thinking an iPhone will be a “game-changer”? I have absolutely no idea. I don’t even know what game they’re referring to. Golf? Tennis? Bocce? Who knows?
										
										 
Total gold for journalists is a story offering a list of ways in which the “iPhone” will be a “game-changer.” I typed “iPhone” and “game-changer” into Google and got more than ten million hits. We’re journalists, but we’re not stupid. 
3. Like every other journalist, I also know that you can’t resist clicking on headlines that contain numbers. 
“Six Foods That Burn Bellyfat.” “The Nine Meals With the Most Sodium.” “The Eight Signs Your Cat May Be The Reincarnation of Napoleon.” Apparently you can’t resist them. I think it’s because you’re wondering if you missed one. Remember before the Internet, when people in bars played games like trying to list all the James Bond movies or “ten cities beginning with M which have more than a million people” or all the 50 states? List articles probably appeal to the same thing. 
Of course I’m guessing, but it doesn’t matter. It added another number to my list, and that’s all that counts. 
4. The thing about these “list” articles is that you can inflate the numbers pretty easily by throwing in filler material like this. 
Maybe we’ll predict the new iPhone will have a bigger screen. 
Maybe we’ll predict it will have longer battery life. 
Maybe we’ll speculate that Apple will give Siri a sexy French accent. 
  It doesn’t really matter how weak the bullet point is, especially if we drop it lower down in the list. That’s because we’ve worked out that you almost never bother to read these articles all the way through anyway. 
Actually, we’ve worked out that most of you are only reading these stories at work because you’re bored and you’re filling time, and you will lose interest after three paragraphs, no matter what the story. And after years of clicking on photos of Kim Kardashian and videos of skateboarding cats you’re basically losing the ability to concentrate on anything longer anyway. 
You know those “next” buttons at the bottom of longer stories? On average, even at the best websites, fewer than 10% of you click on them. Most of you give up way before then. 
5. Finally, the best thing with these lists is to go for five, seven or ten points. 
For some reason human beings, at least westerners, seem wired to think in these numbers. 
(We also like the number three, as in Goldilocks and the Three Bears, but it’s too short for articles.) 
You’re more likely to click on stories with those numbers in the headline, and you’re more likely to take them seriously. Other numbers look too awkward. 
The problem with “Eight Signs Your Cat May Be The Reincarnation of Napoleon” isn’t that the story is ridiculous or far too absurd for any grown person to click on, but simply that the number’s wrong. It looks like you have one too many or you missed a couple. “Seven Signs Your Cat May Be the Reincarnation of Napoleon,” or “Ten Signs,” is much better. 
And if your cat really were the reincarnation of Napoleon, that would pretty much be a game-changer.