Gold Sees Tepid Short-Covering Bounce After Hitting 10-Week Low Overnight Gold Sees Tepid Short-Covering Bounce After Hitting 10-Week Low Overnight (Kitco News)&nbsp;- Gold prices are modestly higher in early U.S. trading Wednesday, on a mild short-covering correction after hitting a 10-week low in overnight trading. The market place awaits key economic data due out on Thursday and Friday. Meantime, the bearish technical postures for both gold and silver markets keep the path of least resistance for prices sideways to lower. December Comex gold was last up $2.30 at $1,267.10 an ounce. Spot gold was last quoted up $0.70 at $1,267.00. December Comex silver last traded up $0.018 at $19.17 an ounce. 
In overnight news, reports said Russia and Ukraine have agreed on a cease-fire from the ongoing conflict in eastern Ukraine. This news added a bit to investor risk appetite in the market place early Wednesday. However, many are skeptical any cease-fire in the region will last. And there are now reports the latest cease-fire was never agreed upon by Russia in the first place.
	
								 
In other news, the European Union saw its retail sales decline 0.4% in July from June, and were up 0.8% year-on-year. Also, the EU composite purchasing managers index (PMI) came in at 52.5 in August versus 53.8 in July. This continues a string of downbeat economic data coming out of the EU. 
Traders are awaiting this week’s big economic data points–Thursday’s European Central Bank meeting and Friday’s U.S. jobs report. The market place reckons the ECB is on the verge of announcing fresh monetary stimulus. However, there is uncertainty on the precise timing of any such move. The U.S. jobs report will give the latest reading on the important non-farm payrolls growth, seen at up 220,000 in August. Recent improving U.S. economic data suggests the Federal Reserve will continue to wind down its quantitative easing of monetary policy by the end of this year, and will likely begin to raise interest rates sometime in 2015.
								
										 
U.S. economic data due for release Wednesday includes the weekly MBA mortgage applications survey, the weekly Goldman Sachs and Johnson Redbook retail sales reports, the ISM New York report on business, manufacturers’ shipments and inventory, the Fed’s beige book and domestic auto sales. 
Wyckoff’s Daily Risk Rating: 6.0 (The market place this week is less focused on the tensions between Russia and Ukraine, and on other world hot spots. But I look for that trader and investor antipathy to change, and sooner rather than later.) 
(Wyckoff’s Daily Risk Rating is your way to quickly gauge investor risk appetite in the world market place each day. Each day I assess the “risk-on” or “risk-off” trader mentality in the market place with a numerical reading of 1 to 10, with 1 being least risk-averse (most risk-on) and 10 being the most risk-averse (risk-off), and 5 being neutral. 
The London A.M. gold fix is $1,268.50 versus the previous P.M. fixing of $1,267.00.
										
										 
Technically, gold bears have the overall near-term technical advantage. A seven-week-old downtrend is firmly in place on the daily bar chart. The gold bulls’ next upside near-term price breakout objective is to produce a close above solid technical resistance at $1,300.00. Bears’ next near-term downside breakout price objective is closing prices below solid technical support at $1,250.00. First resistance is seen at the overnight high of $1,272.40 and then at $1,280.00. First support is seen at the overnight low of $1,261.90 and then at $1,250.00. 
December silver futures bears have the firm near-term technical advantage as prices hit a nearly three-month low Tuesday. Silver bulls’ next upside price breakout objective is closing prices above solid technical resistance at $20.00 an ounce. The next downside price breakout objective for the bears is closing prices below solid technical support at $19.00. First resistance is seen at $19.355 and then at Tuesday’s high of $19.565. Next support is seen at Tuesday’s low of $19.11 and then at $19.00. 
By Jim Wyckoff, contributing to Kitco News; jwyckoff@kitco.com Follow me on Twitter&nbsp;@jimwyckoff