When Do-Gooder Taxes Don't Do Good When Do-Gooder Taxes Don't Do Good I’m no fan of anti-obesity taxes, whether they target soda, candy bars, or any other junk food. They are regressive and arbitrary, not to mention paternalistic and condescending. Supporters have all sorts of genuine good intentions. But ultimately, these taxes are simply an unfair money grab dressed up as a public health initiative. 
Now we have some evidence that they may be ineffective, too. Four experts at Cornell University&nbsp;have shown&nbsp;that taxes on calorie-dense foods might fail to achieve their key goals, including a reduction in calorie intake and improvements in diet quality. (They might still, however, manage to raise some cash.)
	
								 
In an effort to assess whether anti-fat taxes can actually do their job, the authors conducted a controlled field experiment in three grocery stories, introducing a 10 percent tax on sugar-sweetened beverages. If you’re interested in the details, by all means take a look. Ultimately, however, their observations were not encouraging for fans of anti-obesity taxes (at least as they are usually conceived). 
Two problems emerged in the study. First, while the tax did curb purchases of calorie-dense drinks initially, consumers eventually went back to their old habits; the authors found no significant reduction in soft drink purchases at the three-month or six-month mark. Second, the authors found that some people who scaled back their sugary soda actually ramped up their beer drinking. 
								
										 
 
 
  
  (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
  
 
“Taxes on less healthy foods may not succeed in reducing soft drink consumption or in reducing calorie consumption,” the authors concluded. “Of greater concern is that such a tax may encourage an increased consumption of alcohol among some households.” 
Really, this shouldn’t surprise anyone. It is what happens when governments tax one thing while leaving another similar-but-different thing untaxed (or less taxed). People shift their behaviors, but not necessarily in the direction that do-good taxers have in mind. 
You might solve the problem, of course, by simply expanding the scope of the fat tax to include beer and other similarly unhealthy substitutes. But that sort of repair work never ends – tax authorities are notoriously bad at targeting taxes, whether they be selective excise taxes or broader sales taxes. Eventually, and inevitably, officials get tangled up in a web of arbitrary and shifting definitions.
										
										 
If you have any doubt about that, ask yourself why some jurisdictions&nbsp;tax sliced bagels but not whole ones(something to do with takeout versus groceries, although the bagels in question often come from the same store). Or why Pennsylvania&nbsp;taxes a cheap $100 tuxedo but not a chic, $3,000 Armani suit&nbsp;(one is formalwear and presumably optional, while the other is just clothing and somehow necessary). 
Battling obesity in important, and I think government has a role to play in winning that fight. But anti-fat taxes aren’t the right weapon. They’re unfair and arbitrary – and they might not even work. 
&nbsp;