Zuckerberg to Keynote Next Galaxy’s Virtual Reality Focused Business Innovation... Zuckerberg to Keynote Next Galaxy’s Virtual Reality Focused Business Innovation... Check out our press release hub, powered by Business Wire. It's a one stop shop for industry announcements to help you stay on top of the latest technology and investment trends. Get the scoop here.MIAMI BEACH, Fla.&#8211;(BUSINESS WIRE)&#8211;September 3, 2014&#8211;
      Next       Galaxy Corp. (OTCBB:NXGA), a leading technology and content       solutions company developing dynamic, innovative consumer virtual       reality experiences and technology, is proud to announce that Randi       Zuckerberg is scheduled to be the keynote speaker for the company&#8217;s       Business Innovation and Growth (B.I.G.) Summit. Each year, The B.I.G.       Summit welcomes sold out audiences of visionaries, thought leaders,       venture capitalists, entrepreneurs, media, business and community       leaders to a day of BIG Ideas for propelling business forward. The next       B.I.G. Summit produced by Next       Galaxy Corp. in partnership with the Miami Beach Chamber of Commerce       will be held at the New World Center in Miami Beach, Florida on       Tuesday, January 20th, 2015.    
      &#8220;We&#8217;ve seen technology change the way that the world thinks and       communicates over the past couple decades and I think that we are       getting ready for another major shift with the emergence of Virtual and       Augmented Reality,&#8221; said Randi Zuckerberg. &#8220;No matter how       much people think they know what is coming, these revolutionary       technologies are likely to exceed all expectations with applications       canvasing social media, entertainment, business and much more. I       am excited to be able to share my thoughts at The B.I.G. Summit.&#8221;    
      Randi Zuckerberg is a New York Times Bestselling Author, the founder and       CEO of Zuckerberg Media, a media and production company, and       Editor-in-Chief of Dot Complicated, an online community helping us       navigate and &#8220;untangle&#8221; our wired, wonderful lives. Randi recently       released her first books with HarperCollins, The New York Times Best       Seller, Dot Complicated, which addresses the multifaceted       complications of our socially transparent world, and a children&#8217;s       picture book, titled Dot. As an early executive at Facebook,       Randi created and ran the social media pioneer&#8217;s marketing programs and       was nominated for an Emmy Award in 2011 for her innovative coverage of       the 2010 mid-term elections. Since starting Zuckerberg Media, Randi has       produced shows and digital content for PayPal, the Clinton Global       Initiative, Cirque du Soleil, the United Nations, Bravo and Conde Nast,       with many other projects in the works. Most recently, Randi launched her       own radio show &#8220;Dot Complicated with Randi Zuckerberg&#8221; on SiriusXM&#8217;s       business radio powered by the Wharton School Channel.    
      &#8220;Randi Zuckerberg continues the tradition of superstar lineups that the       B.I.G. Summit is known for. The outstanding group of global thought       leaders including Ms. Zuckerberg presents a rare opportunity for       attendees to network and gain insight from the very best in the       industry. We are excited to partner with the Miami Beach Chamber of       Commerce to bring this extraordinary event to Florida,&#8221; commented Mary       Spio, President of Next Galaxy Corp.    
      With each B.I.G. Summit focusing on trends that are disrupting business       and consumers, Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality and Interactive       Entertainment will be the primary topics of the upcoming event. Randi&#8217;s       keynote will focus on future trends, based on her knowledge and insights       from the front lines of Silicon Valley, into how the world is going to       change in the next 2-5 years and what consumers and businesses need to       do to make sure they aren&#8217;t left behind.    
      &#8220;We are excited to partner with Next Galaxy&#8217;s Business Innovation and       Growth (B.I.G.) Summit and welcome visionaries, business leaders and       entrepreneurs to Miami Beach,&#8221; said Miami Beach Chamber of Commerce       Chairman and SVP of Gibraltar Private Bank &amp; Trust Michael S. Goldberg.       &#8220;Randi&#8217;s keynote speech regarding the future of technology and how it       could positively impact the economic development of Miami Beach will       surely be one of the highlights of the summit.&#8221;    
      Miami Beach Chamber of Commerce President and CEO Jerry Libbin added,       &#8220;Miami Beach is quickly emerging as a technology and innovation hub.       With all the great tech companies, pristine beaches and attractions, it       is the perfect meeting place for the best and brightest minds in the       industry to convene.&#8221;    
      Call for speakers for the event opens today, with opportunities for       founders, thought leaders, C-level executives, venture capitalists and       other industry visionaries to submit an application to offer insight and       inspiration. Visit www.bigsummit.biz       to register for the B.I.G. Summit.    
      About Next Galaxy Corp:    
      Next Galaxy Corporation is a leading developer of innovative Augmented       and fully Immersive Consumer Virtual Reality technology and content       solutions. The Company&#8217;s flagship consumer product in development is CEEK,       a next-generation fully immersive entertainment and social virtual       reality platform featuring a combination of live, virtual and augmented       events and experiences. Next Galaxy&#8217;s CEEK simulates the communal       experience of attending live events, such as concerts, sporting events       or business conferences through Virtual and Augmented Reality. In short,       Next Galaxy is building the meeting places of the future.    
      For further information, visit www.nextgalaxycorp.com.    
      Forward-looking statement:    
      This press release may contain statements of a forward-looking nature       regarding future events. These statements are only predictions, and       actual events may differ materially. Please refer to documents that       Wiless Controls Inc. files from time to time with the Securities and       Exchange Commission for a discussion of certain factors that could cause       actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking       statements.    


      Next Galaxy Corp.Tina Brown, 877-451-0008Tina@ceek.com    
