'Destiny' Fans Taking Friends-Only Raid Matchmaking Into Their Own Hands 'Destiny' Fans Taking Friends-Only Raid Matchmaking Into Their Own Hands One of Destiny’s more controversial policies ahead of release is that its 6-man raids, which feature the toughest content and dole out the best loot in the game, will not allow for randomized matchmaking. Instead, Bungie wants players only to take them on with five other friends, as the level of coordination needed to complete the difficult segments is greater than what random matchmaking can provide. 
While veteran MMO players may be used to getting together a group of 20 or even 40 players to go on raids in other games, many potential Destiny players have been wary of the idea, myself included. For those of us with families or jobs or school, or just lacking five friends with the same video game console, the prospect of organizing a time to actually get friends together to attempt these raids seems daunting.
	
								 
But rather than sit around and complain about it on the internet (like me), some fans have gotten together to come up with homemade solutions to the problem. One answer? That would the site&nbsp;ThatWizardCameFromTheMoon.com, named after a now-deleted catchphrase from the Destiny alpha. 

								
										 
Its purpose is to be a sort of off-book matchmaking service for Destiny raids. You pick your platform, your timezone and your class, and then the search mechanism will allow you to find others who may be willing to raid with you. The site manager, Doug Wickham, claims that three days after launch, TWCFTM already had 500 members, and it’s continuing to grow. 
Other fan-made solutions are springing up as well, including clan “Dads of Destiny,” aimed at bringing together busy fathers who just want a place to game with others like them, with similarly restrictive schedules. Here’s their mission statement. 
“We’re a growing collective of dads, granddads, and uncles. Our ages span from 18 – 60 and we share common values. We’re all family-oriented guys who understand that normal day-to-day life comes first and gaming comes second. We are business owners, laborers, investors, doctors, lawyers, bankers, chefs, and artists. We are unique individuals who have come together with a common interest. We are gamers. We are fathers. We are the Dads of Destiny.” 
These are valiant efforts to bring members of the Destiny community together, yet even with dedicated fans trying to organize these sorts of groups, I still fear for the overall functionality of the game. Even with these services, they still insert additional steps of coordinating raid times online. It may be a lot more doable than coordinating with actual friends (I literally do not have five real-life friends that own a PS4 at this point in my life), but it’s still a few extra steps outside the world of the game, and I’m not sure how many players will want to go to third party websites or join clans just to experience the friends-only raid portion of the game. Perhaps many will, and again, this kind of thing has been going on in MMOs for years, but in many games, organizing raids is done in-game through chat or other means. Destiny has no such functionality.
										
										 
That makes me wonder if Bungie will come out with some sort of “friend-finder” system of their own, as it does seem a bit odd to rely entirely on the fanbase to create these sort of sites for themselves. But that would be a little sad for those like TWCFTM’s Wickham, who has spent a lot of time building his own site. “To be honest, it would be a little bittersweet,” he says. 
But despite that, Wickham rejects my idea that Bungie should do away with the friends-only requirement altogether. 
“We completely agree with Bungie’s reason to not have in-game matchmaking for raids. Bungie is thinking about the total user experience with this decision, and to have such a challenging experience ruined by some random would be horrible for the game. You have to have a tight-knit group of individuals and not a bunch of random players to tackle the possibly week long commitment of a Raid. It’s hard to find 5 others players on the same level as you…let alone in the same time zone with the same style of play and same personality.” 
The idea is that his site takes the time commitment out of actual “clans,” while still allowing players to socialize and play together. With a few more features added (I’d request a “time of day available” profile field), it could really help alleviate the “friends-only” problem. 
I maintain that Bungie should have a “normal mode” on raids that allows for randomized matchmaking while reserving “hard mode” for friends-only, but barring any major policy changes in the week before launch, it seems like I very well may be making my own account at ThatWizardCameFromTheMoon, and playing with some likeminded strangers. 
Follow me&nbsp;on Twitter, like my page&nbsp;on Facebook,&nbsp;and pick up a copy of my sci-fi novel,&nbsp;The Last Exodus,&nbsp;and&nbsp;its sequel,&nbsp;The Exiled Earthborn, along with my new Forbes book,&nbsp;Fanboy Wars. 
How should Destiny spend its $500M budget? I explain below: 
 
  
  
               
  
