Breaking Bad Piracy Soars After Emmy Wins Breaking Bad Piracy Soars After Emmy Wins When Breaking Bad notched up five Emmy wins last week, it gained another, more dubious, accolade too: a five-fold increase in illegal downloads. 
Breaking Bad was a big winner at the event, collecting the Outstanding Drama Series prize, as well as individual awards for Bryan Cranston, Aaron Paul, Anna Gunn and writer Moira Walley-Beckett. And this won it attention of a more unwelcome kind: according to data analytics firm CEG TEK International, the rate of illegal P2P file-sharing for the AMC show jumped 412 percent the day after the Emmys were broadcast. Before the awards, it was getting around 27,500 illegal shares a day – 141,000, the day after.
	
								 
The boost in numbers took it almost overnight from the fifteenth most-pirated show in the US to the second, behind HBO’s Game of Thrones. Worldwide, it went from sixth to second. 
But the Emmy effect showed up elsewhere too. True Detective, House of Cards, Homeland and The Newsroom all saw illegal peer-to-peer downloads jump by an average of 340 per cent; for ABC’s Scandal, the figure was an astonishing 1,630%. 
								
										 
 
 
  
  Bryan Cranston (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
  
 
“Typically, piracy peaks on weekends, but of the 50 shows we monitored, 47 were pirated more as a result of the Primetime Emmy Awards broadcast,” says CEG’s CTO Jon Nicolini. “Clearly, the prestige of the Emmys is alive and well.” 
The figures indicate the extent to which piracy is a spur-of-the-moment phenomenon. Breaking Bad, for example, is available in its entirety on Netflix, so isn’t all that difficult to get hold of legally in many countries. And given that there haven’t been any new episodes for a year, people with more than a passing interest in the show have had plenty of time to do that. 
Other shows that experienced a big rise in illegal downloads after the awards include Downton Abbey, The Normal Heart, The Newsroom and Veep. Similarly, many shows that failed to win awards saw their piracy ranking fall: Netflix’s Orange Is the New Black, for example, fell from the third-most pirated show in the US to fifth, after failing to pick up any awards.
										
										 
No doubt, the Emmy awards will have driven up legal views of the winning shows too; but AMC may have cause to thank the pirates more. After all, it’s only last year that Time Warner CEO Jeff Bewkes commented that Game of Thrones’ rank as most-pirated show was “better than an Emmy”, thanks to the way it drummed up legal views. It’s still clocking up nearly 300,000 illegal shares a day – and plenty of legitimate ones.