Report: Tesla's Gigafactory May Be Way Too Giga Report: Tesla's Gigafactory May Be Way Too Giga As five states compete to land Tesla Motors’ $5 billion gigafactory, a new research report suggests the factory may never meet its giant production goals. 
Lux Research says the Tesla project will create significant overcapacity in lithium-ion battery packs, and predicts the company will only be able to sell about half of what it plans to produce.
	
								 
The gigafactory is set to begin production in 2017. Within three years, Tesla is aiming to produce 500,000 battery packs annually, for use in vehicles such as its small Model 3, a mass-market electric car costing much less than the luxury Model S. 
Lux Research, however, projects sales of only 240,000 Model 3 cars in 2020. It believes the factory will have 57 percent too much capacity, which could spell trouble for Tesla’s battery partner, Panasonic.
								
										 
Panasonic is investing $1.4 billion in the gigafactory, based on the expectation of half a million units in vehicle sales. That conceivably could mean it takes in $15 billion from 2017 to 2010. 
But Lux, whose research specializes in emerging technologies, says the smaller production target could mean Panasonic only sees $7 billion on its investment, considered crucial to the Tesla project. 
That also could be a problem for the state that wins the plant, which is supposed to create 6,500 jobs by 2020. Tesla is asking states to commit to $500 million in incentives, or about 10 percent of the gigafactory’s overall cost. 
At the moment, only Reno, Nevada, has done the necessary preparation work to be considered a finalist for the project. Tesla is also considering Arizona, California, Texas and New Mexico. It hopes to choose a location by the end of the year.
										
										 
It’s been thought that Tesla could use some of the gigafactory’s battery packs in products made by Solar City, another project backed by its CEO, Elon Musk. Or, that the company could sell some to rival auto manufacturers. 
Lux Research believes that’s unlikely, however. 
Of course, without a location selected and production work begun, it’s hard to predict exactly what will come of the gigafactory. Lux Research has a decent track record, however, as FORBES Detroit bureau chief Joann Muller points out. 
In 2010, Lux correctly foresaw a glut of electric car batteries, despite $2 billion in incentives dolled out by the federal government for the manufacture of electric cars and plug-in hybrids. Back then, President Obama wanted to have 1 million plug-in hybrid vehicles on the road by 2015, a target that was far too optimistic. 

 see photosAP Photo/David Zalubowski, File
 Click for full photo gallery: Tesla's Gigafactory
 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 
Read my new Forbes ebook, Curbing Cars: America’s Independence From The Auto Industry.  
Follow me on Twitter @mickimaynard