When Will We Finally See Ridley Scott’s ‘Blade Runner’ Sequel? When Will We Finally See Ridley Scott’s ‘Blade Runner’ Sequel? Source: Warner Bros
Ridley Scott is known for juggling multiple huge projects at once and it seems like this year is no different. The famed director is currently busy wrapping up Exodus: Gods and Kings, which is set for release in December. But he also has three more big films in the works, including the highly anticipated sequels to both Blade Runner and Prometheus.
In a recent interview with Entertainment Weekly, Scott discussed several of his upcoming projects, including his next sci-fi film The Martian. The flick, based on the 2011 novel by Andy Weir, stars Matt Damon as Mark Watney, an astronaut who becomes stranded on Mars after a storm and is presumed dead. “It’s like Robinson Crusoe &#8211; if you were marooned or shipwrecked, how do you survive?” Scott described of the flick.
With a release date scheduled for late 2015, filming is set to kick off later this year. Scott has already storyboarded the film and is now scouting locations to begin shooting. “I think I’m going to shoot in Budapest,” he says. “And we’ll probably shoot in Wadi Rum for Mars. I like Wadi Rum &#8212; it’s the best view I’ve ever seen of what could be Mars.”
Still, while the film may be Scott’s most immediate upcoming project, it’s just one in a long line of movies that the 76-year-old director has on his plate. He’s also scheduled to helm the long-awaited sequel to his 1982 flick Blade Runner, starring Harrison Ford. According to Scott, the script was co-written by Hampton Fancher (who helped adapt the original film from Philip K. Dick’s novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?) and Michael Green, and is now completed.
“It’s written and it’s damn good,” Scott said of the sequel script, per EW. That may be so, but there&#8217;s still other factors to figure out. In terms of casting, it’s unclear whether Ford will reprise for the follow-up, although Scott himself has admitted that he wants the actor to return. “Of course it involves Harrison, who is a survivor after all these years—despite the accident,” he said of the script, also referring to the minor ankle injury Ford sustained while shooting Star Wars: Episode VII.“So yes, that will happen.”

					
          
                    
					
For their part, Ford’s camp has yet to comment on his potential participation in the project. However, back in May, the producers at Alcon Entertainment released a statement, confirming that they made an offer to the actor to appear in the sequel. “We believe that Hampton Fancher and Michael Green have crafted with Ridley Scott an extraordinary sequel to one of the greatest films of all time,” the statement read. “We would be honored, and we are hopeful, that Harrison will be part of our project.”
Of course, now that Scott has confirmed the script is ready and waiting, the next big question other than casting is when will viewers actually get to see it? In good news for fans, it could be sooner rather than later. Scott says the sequel will likely get rolling &#8220;probably after [The Martian.]” If that’s the case, shooting could start as early as next year as Scott is known to work quickly. Still, nothing is confirmed yet, and as is clearly evidenced by his full docket, the director isn&#8217;t afraid to take on or pursue more projects &#8212; a quality that has helped make him the recognized and prolific filmmaker he is today.
As it is, he has another big sequel besides Blade Runner 2 in the works: Prometheus 2. Earlier this year, original cast member of the 2012 film Michael Fassbender revealed that the follow-up was happening, but wasn’t sure when. Now, Scott is confirming that the script is already in place but, like with the Blade Runner sequel, it’s simply a matter of finding the time in his jam-packed schedule. “That’s the problem. I’ve got a lot of ducks in a row. But they’re all written,” he said.
Given the option of seeing either a Blade Runner or Prometheus sequel first, most seem to learn toward the former. But for now, fans will have to stay tuned to see if Scott will stick to his plan and direct it in the next couple of years. In the meantime, moviegoers can catch the director’s next confirmed project, The Martian, in theaters on November 25, 2015.