Don't want AbRam to be part of 'circus of public life': Shah Rukh Khan Don't want AbRam to be part of 'circus of public life': Shah Rukh Khan 
					Mumbai: Superstar Shah Rukh Khan says he does not want his son AbRam to be in the 'circus of public life' that he is a part of.Shah Rukh and Gauri's youngest child AbRam was born through surrogacy in May last year. "I am not overtly happy talking about him. He is my baby and nobody else's. You can come home and see him if I allow you to come in my house," Shah Rukh told PTI in an exclusive interview here."He (AbRam) is not meant for flashbulbs. I don't want him to be a participant in this circus of public life that I am a part of. That is what I do... Public life... The good, bad, ugly, goodness of media, the strangeness... I am part of it, not my children," the 48-year-old actor said.AbRam was born at 34 weeks of pregnancy and had initially spent most of the time in hospital. "It is one of the only things that has made me uncomfortable in my career is you take on a child who is sick when he was born and make it an issue... I find it very disgraceful. I am a movie star, disgrace me but not my kids," he said.Though his two elder children - Aryan and Suhana - pose with him for media, but the doting father insists that this is because they are grown up and hang around with him."He (Abram) is small... Don't want to allow that innocence in my line of work. Others do it good... I don't do it so I can't comment on others. One day if I feel to come out I will. My baby, my life... I feel awkward when people say why I don't bring him in public. I will do what I feel like. You can't put picture because I don't like it, I feel uncomfortable," he said.Shah Rukh is still unhappy recollecting the time when there were reports that a pre-natal sex determination test, which is banned in the country, had been conducted, following which the Mumbai civic body had sent a team to his residence to ascertain the facts which was turned away.The actor has repeatedly trashed the speculations.PTI