Perez Hilton Apologizes and Removes Nude Images of Jennifer Lawrence Perez Hilton Apologizes and Removes Nude Images of Jennifer Lawrence Internet blogger Perez Hilton attends Out Magazine Hot List Party on Tuesday, June 24, 2014, in New York.Image: Photo by Andy Kropa/Invision/AP/Associated Press

Celebrity blogger Perez Hilton has apologized on his Twitter account and removed the nude images of Jennifer Lawrence and Victoria Justice from his website, perezhilton.com. The private photos of these and many more celebrities have been leaked on the internet after an alleged iCloud hack. 
Hilton first replaced the uncensored nude photos on his site with censored versions, but then changed his mind and removed the photos altogether. 

"No, I haven’t been forced to do so or been contacted by their reps, but I am removing those uncensored photos of JLaw and Victoria Justice," he wrote in a tweet. "Upon further reflection and just sitting with my actions, I don't feel comfortable even keeping the censored photos up. I am removing them," he later added. 

No, I haven’t been forced to do so or been contacted by their reps, but I am removing those uncensored photos of JLaw and Victoria Justice.
— Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) August 31, 2014


I acted in haste just to get the post up and didn't really think things through. I'm sorry.
— Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) August 31, 2014


At work we often have to make quick decisions. I made a really bad one today and then made it worse. I feel awful and am truly sorry.
— Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) August 31, 2014


Upon further reflection and just sitting with my actions, I don't feel comfortable even keeping the censored photos up. I am removing them.
— Perez Hilton (@PerezHilton) August 31, 2014

The private photos of celebrities started spreading on 4Chan Sunday, with a post claiming that hackers managed to breach a number of celeb iCloud accounts. The long list of allegedly hacked celebrities includes Avril Lavigne, Hayden Pannettiere, Hillary Duff, Jenny McCarthy, Kayley Cuoco, Kate Upton, Kim Kardashian, Kirsten Dunst, Mary Elizabeth Winstead, Rihanna and Scarlet Johansson, among others. 
Mary Winstead confirmed she has been hacked on Twitter. "To those of you looking at photos I took with my husband years ago in the privacy of our home, hope you feel great about yourselves," she wrote. 

To those of you looking at photos I took with my husband years ago in the privacy of our home, hope you feel great about yourselves.
— Mary E. Winstead (@M_E_Winstead) August 31, 2014


Knowing those photos were deleted long ago, I can only imagine the creepy effort that went into this. Feeling for everyone who got hacked.
— Mary E. Winstead (@M_E_Winstead) August 31, 2014

Victoria Justice, however, said the leaked nude photos of her are not authentic. 

These so called nudes of me are FAKE people. Let me nip this in the bud right now. *pun intended*
— Victoria Justice (@VictoriaJustice) August 31, 2014

A spokesperson for Jennifer Lawrence told Mashable that the leaked photos are a "flagrant violation of privacy," and that anyone who posts them will be prosecuted by the authorities. 
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.