Scarlett Johansson, Prince Harry and other victims of nude photo leaks Scarlett Johansson, Prince Harry and other victims of nude photo leaks 
					Of all the privileges celebrities enjoy, privacy isn't one. Their personal lives often serve as fodder for tabloid gossips, their heartbreaks are always headline worthy and exclusive shots of them doing something as mundane as grocery shopping can help paparazzi make fortunes. It is this insane amount of public interest that cyber criminals often exploit.Over the years, hackers have leaked several nude photos of celebrities, MMS-es featuring stars getting intimate and sex tapes that has found its way on the social media. The recent case being that of Jennifer Lawrence and about 100 other celebrities who's naked/semi-nude photos were leaked online. The celebrities in question include Rihanna, Kim Kardashian, Mary Kate Olsen, Cara Delevingne, Kate Bosworth, Selena Gomez, Vanessa Hudgens, Kate Upton, Kirsten Dunst and Kaley Cucoo among others.It was an iCloud leak that helped the hacker hack into the phones of these celebrities and post the photos online. While this is the first time that 'nude photos' leak' has happened in such a massive scale, there are a few celebrities who have been there and done that. Here's a list of them:1. Scarlett Johansson: In early 2011, several X-rated photos of the actress surfaced online. Johansson said that the photos had been sent to her then-husband, Ryan Reynolds, three years prior to the incident. She immediately contacted the FBI and they zeroed down on the perpetrators, Christopher Chaney.&nbsp; Chaney of Jacksonville, Florida pleaded guilty to computer hacking. In addition to a prison sentence for him, prosecutors are requesting that he pay Johansson about $66,000 in compensation2. Prince Harry: Everybody loves a royal scandal and if the Prince of England is caught naked with a bunch of drunken girls, nothing like it. In 2012,&nbsp; Prince Harry's two naked pictures surfaced on TMZ.com. While it earned him the reputation of being the party prince, Harry didn't bother with it at all and headed off to serve in Afghanistan soon after the scandal.3. Mila Kunis: The photos that were leaked from Mila Kunis's phone were not hers but Justin Timberlake's. The actress had worked with Timberlake in Friends With Benefits andhad repeatedly denied being in a relationship with him . However, the photographs that surfaced shows Timberlake shirtless in bed. While media did construe a lot after seeing the photos given that Timberlake was married to Jessica Biel at that time,&nbsp; the matter came to an end with the hacker being arrested. He was the same person who leaked Johansson's photos.4. Venessa Hudgens: We all know how important a squeaky clean image is for a Disney teen star and in 2007 Venessa Hudgens, who starred in The High School Musical series, had to apologize publicly to keep Disney from dropping her from the series, after her nude photos surfaced online. The actress said she was 'embarassed over the situation' and 'regretted taking those photos'. However,&nbsp; two years later when her photos were again leaked, instead of going on a guilt-trip she sued www.moejackson.com for posting them and invading her privacy.