Getty ImagesHackers Post Alleged Naked Pics of Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton Getty ImagesHackers Post Alleged Naked Pics of Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton 
Oscar-winner Jennifer Lawrence and supermodel Kate Upton are among dozens of celebrity women who had risque photos allegedly of them leaked by an online bulletin board in an apparent hacking campaign.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                Nude Photos of Celebs Released on Internet
                                                                
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
According to the apparent leaker, the photos were obtained through the celebrities' cloud accounts.

The photos showed the A-listers in various states of undress.

How 'the Cloud' Works and Why So Many People Are Perplexed by It

"This is a flagrant violation of privacy," a spokesperson for Lawrence told ABC News. "The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence."

Upton's attorney, Lawrence Shire, echoed those sentiments.

"This is obviously an outrageous violation of our client, Kate Upton's, privacy," he said. "We intend to pursue anyone disseminating or duplicating these illegally obtained images to the fullest extent possible."

Meantime, a representative for Ariana Grande called her allegedly leaked photos "completely fake."

Singer Victoria Justice and Olympic gymnast McKayla Maroney did the same via Twitter.
 

These so called nudes of me are FAKE people. Let me nip this in the bud right now. *pun intended*— Victoria Justice (@VictoriaJustice) August 31, 2014 
 
 

the fake photos of me are crazy!!
was trying to rise above it all, and not give "the creator" the time of day.. BUT.. pic.twitter.com/hceQcOxYkJ— McKayla Maroney (@McKaylaMaroney) September 1, 2014 
 

Actress Mary Elizabeth Winstead said she had deleted the photos later posted of her.
 

To those of you looking at photos I took with my husband years ago in the privacy of our home, hope you feel great about yourselves.— Mary E. Winstead (@M_E_Winstead) August 31, 2014 
 
 

Knowing those photos were deleted long ago, I can only imagine the creepy effort that went into this. Feeling for everyone who got hacked.— Mary E. Winstead (@M_E_Winstead) August 31, 2014 
 

"Even if you have deleted those photos from your phone, often times they've already been uploaded into the cloud," said Clifford Neuman, the director of the USC Center for Computer System Security. "When you deleted them from the phone, they continue to exist."

Representatives for other celebrities who allegedly were hacked didn't immediately return calls for comment.

Hacking of celebrities' personal accounts has happened before. In a separate case in 2012, a Florida man was sentenced to 10 years in prison after he pleaded guilty to hacking into email accounts and stealing compromising photos of celebrities, including Scarlet Johansson, Mila Kunis and Christina Aguilera.