Splitsvilla wrap: When the Dumbolinas chose a Badmash Bhediya Splitsvilla wrap: When the Dumbolinas chose a Badmash Bhediya 
					Since the last week's episode of Splitsvilla was about establishing that general knowledge and women are mostly mutually exclusive , this week was about trying to prove that men have some drawbacks too. And what are those? 'Getting trapped by two sisters', 'falling in love and then getting used for sexual gratification' are a few of them, as this episode revealed. Like the last episode, this episode began with a quiz, again directed at the girls. In this quiz, host Nikhil Chinapa mentioned either an event from one of the boys' life or some statement they had made. The girls had to guess the person Chinapa was talking about.At the end of the&nbsp;quiz, depending on the boy who the girls named most while answering the questions, a 'bad boy' was declared. He was named Badmash Bhediya, in a subtle tribute to the Ramsay heroes. The boy in question was the&nbsp;beauty among the beasts - Abhishekh. He by the way, was the one 'trapped by two sisters'. However, he was safe from being banished to the outhouse.Piror to this bit, Jacqueline was dumped by kind Shravan. The boys in the outhouse - Rishabh and Ayaz had the opportunity to save two girls from the dumping zone. Of the four girls - Priyanka, Jacqueline, Rashi and Ranji - the boys saved Ayaz's love interest Priyanka and Ranji, the new entrant who thinks 'Hibrish' is a language humans speak. She had also, in the earlier episode, expressed great shock at having to mingle with 'pure Indians' as she had only been around 'firangs' in the past. Anyway, to keep Splitsvilla's intelligence intact, Ranji got a lease of life.However, when Rashi faced the threat of getting dumped, Mayank Gandhi, decided to Bollywood things up a bit and said he will leave with her, if she gets dumped. It made Sunny very angry (and thank god for her) reminded the contestants that they had signed up for the show fully knowing the format and has no business playing Romeo Juliet on the show.Between Rashi and Jacqueline, king Shravan took a decision from the 'heart'. Since Mayank Gandhi has his eyes on Rashi and vice versa, he decides to dump Jacqueline. A lot of tears were shed, Mayank Pawar, who looks just like a humanised version of a fridge, announced that he was going to change Jacqueline's 'physique'. The only sane voice in it all seemed to be of Scarelet's who commented that Jacqueline is perfect that way she is.And Ayaz, the boy who wears candy coloured bug glasses, possibly even matching them with his colourful shorts, sulked as he was pulled up for calling Jacqueline an elephant on several occasions. Actually, the boy must have been shattered. He must have thought that in the gleefully gender prejudiced land of Splitsvilla it was perfectly legitimate to make fat jokes.In the next episode, the girls in the villa get to vote out a boy, who then joins the banished boys in the out house. The banished boys then get to compete with him in a bid to come back into the game and take the said boy's place.Needless to say, since Splitsvilla is populated with the most subtle boys in the world, that episode will be a treat to watch.