What Happened to the Last Hacker of Celebrity Photos What Happened to the Last Hacker of Celebrity Photos Jennifer Lawrence at the premiere of 'X-Men: Days of Future Past' held at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center on May 10 in New York City.Image: Eric Charbonneau/Invision for Twentieth Century Fox/Associated Press

The person or group who allegedly stole nude photos from celebrity iCloud accounts and began to post them online on Sunday has yet to be identified, let alone charged. But the brief history of celebrity hacks suggests that jail time is in this hacker's future.
Alleged nude images of celebrities such as Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton, Mary Elizabeth Winstead and others began showing up online on Sunday—some confirmed as authentic, others not. 

In a statement provided to Mashable, Lawrence's representatives said they have contacted authorities and will prosecute anyone who posts the nude images. 
The hack bears a lot of resemblance to a recent case — one in which Florida resident Christopher Chaney was imprisoned for hacking the email accounts of celebrities such as Scarlett Johansson, downloading nude images of her and posting them online. 
The FBI indicted the then-35-year old on nine counts of computer hacking for gain, nine counts of illegal wiretapping and eight counts of aggravated identity theft after arresting him in 2011. 
Chaney faced up to 121 years in federal prison for reportedly hacking the emails of more than 50 celebrities, which he did by monitoring their social media accounts for password hints. 
Once had had access to one account, he looked through the account's list of contacts and picked his next victims. 
The Jacksonville man was sentenced to a decade behind bars in 2012, and forced to pay a $66,179 fine.
It's still unknown whether the FBI, or any other agency has begun an investigation; the Feds have not returned a request for comment. It's also unclear how any charges would differ from Chaney's case, given that this hacker supposedly broke into celebrity iCloud accounts while Chaney gained access to their emails. 
Still, Chaney's story does convey the message that those who violate the digital privacy of public figures may yet face significant jail time.
The sentences for similar crimes have varied wildly. Earlier this year, 19-year-old Luis Flores Jr. was sentenced to three years in prison for credit card fraud and aggravated identity theft for stealing credit card and social security information from celebrities ranging from Kim Kardashian to Bill Gates. 
Once he had the information, Flores would request that a new credit card be mailed to his Florida home — which is how authorities caught him. 
In 2011, then-22-year old Josh Holly was sentenced to three years probation for various cyber crimes. Those charges were unrelated to another digital scheme he reportedly concocted — hacking Miley Cyrus' Gmail account. 
Holly was never prosecuted for allegedly stealing Cyrus' photos, and instead went to court for taking credit card information from about 200 people and for a spamming scheme that earned him around $100,000. 
All the above cases are preceded by what is probably the first major celebrity hack — the time a Massachusetts teenager stole photos and cellphone numbers from Paris Hilton after hacking into her T-Mobile phone. 
That teen was sentenced to 11 months in a juvenile detention center.
Meanwhile, this latest celebrity photo hacker may be well aware that the authorities are likely to come looking for him. "I don't want the FBI over me," an individual told 4Chan on Sunday when asking for help to anonymously upload an illicit video of Jennifer Lawrence. 
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.