7 Standout Moments From Made in America Music Festival in Philly 7 Standout Moments From Made in America Music Festival in Philly Pharrell Williams performs Aug. 31 at Made In America at Benjamin Franklin Parkway in Philadelphia. Image: Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Anheuser-Busch

PHILADELPHIA — Through rain and shine, the east coast segment of the bi-coastal Made in America music festival delivered many memorable moments over Labor Day weekend. 
Some moments left attendees spellbound in dance fervor, inspired by monologues from artists and surprisingly silent during poignant artistry that broached hot topics such as Ferguson, celebrity culture and female empowerment.

In chronological order of the major nighttime acts, here are our seven standouts:
1. J. Cole opens with police-brutality videos
 
Rapper J. Cole started his show with a video montage of police-brutality clips set to "Be Free," the song he recorded after the shooting death of unarmed black teen Michael Brown in Ferguson, Missouri. 
The tribute was a somber yet timely opening that hushed the usually rowdy Made in America crowd. It served as a reminder that music at fun events like festivals can keep important conversations going amid the good times. 

2. Steve Aoki hurls cake, ignites champagne showers

Steve Aoki performs at the  Made in America festival Grand Park on Aug. 31 in Los Angeles. Image: Chelsea Lauren/WireImage/Getty ImagesElectronic house musician Steve Aoki had the messiest show by far, rallying festival-goers by hurling sheets of bakery-style cakes at them and then showering them with bottles of champagne. He began the delicious mayhem in Philly on Saturday before doing it all over again Sunday in Los Angeles for the west coast part of bi-coastal festival. 

A fan reacts after Steve Aoki hurled at cake at her face at Made in America on Aug. 30 in Philadelphia. Image:  Mashable3. Jay Z makes it rain $2 bills

Jay Z and Beyonce attend Made in America at Grand Park on Aug. 31 in Los Angeles.Image: Christopher Polk/Getty Images for Anheuser-BuschJay Z threw a stack of $2 bills into the air and watched as it rained down on the audience at Steve Aoki's Philly show. The $2 bills have a history in the music industry. Sightings of the uncommon paper money can be attributed to one wealthy lawyer: Mr. Steven Reisman, a human $2 bill dispensary for the stars in the hip-hop and rap world.
Nicknamed "The Two Dollar Bill Man," Reisman and his bills are now connected to such celebs as Jay Z, Kanye West, Beyonce, Michael Strahan, Justin Bieber and Big Sean.
4. Kanye lectures about love, hate and Kimye

Kanye West serves as headliner at Made in America on Aug. 30 in Philadelphia. Image: Charles Sykes/Invision/APKanye West offered several thought-provoking monologues during his headlining set. The 37-year-old rapper gave a rousing 5-minute autotuned speech midway through "Runaway" that touched on many subjects such as hateful criticism from media, his vision of love as well as his marriage to Kim Kardashian. 
"For me to be in a very publicized interracial relationship is not a joke," Kanye said. "It's something that should be treated with respect because we're all in this together."
5. Spoon survived a mid-set weather delay

Britt Daniel of Spoon performs during a rainstorm at Made In America on Aug. 31 in Philadelphia.Image: Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Anheuser-BuschA rainstorm, accompanied by dangerous lightning, disrupted Spoon's set Sunday night. Fans were forced to evacuate the premises as organizers feared for their safety. An hour later, Spoon re-emerged onstage to finish as the rain continued to pour sans the lightning. 
The heavy rain seemed to awaken the crowd, with some fans dancing wildy while others closed their eyes, tilted their heads back and listened to the music with the added beat of raindrops.
6. Pharrell urges more women to shine

Pharrell Williams speaks at Made In America on Aug. 31 in Philadelphia.Image: Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Anheuser-BuschAs the festival wound down, with Pharrell Williams as the night's third to last performer, the "Happy" singer incited loud cheers with a speech about female empowerment. He closed the message thus: "I want to see some more female world leaders, I want to see some more female co-writers, I want to see some more female doctors, I want to see some more female artists. Let's do the anthem for the girls." This segued into "Hollaback Girl."
7. Kings of Leon's drummer closes with broken ribs

Brothers Caleb Followill and Nathan Followill of Kings of Leon perform at Made in America on Aug. 31.Image: Kevin Mazur/Getty Images for Anheuser-Busch"Sex on Fire" rockers Kings of Leon made their triumphant return to the stage after canceling tour dates for the past three weeks due to drummer Nathan Followill's broken ribs, which he cracked in a tour-bus accident. 
Though still sore, Followill warned Mashable prior to his set that he may cry at Made in America, but he instead winked at the cameras and soldiered through, captivating the crowd with "Use Somebody" and other hits. The Kings' red, white and blue lighting also evoked a perfectly patriotic Labor Day vibe.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.