Joan Rivers Reportedly Brought Out of Coma as Family Considers Lawsuit Joan Rivers Reportedly Brought Out of Coma as Family Considers Lawsuit Image: Pete Kramer/Associated Press

Joan Rivers' daughter Melissa Rivers told Mashable in a statement that she is keeping her "fingers crossed" for the comedian's full recovery, as doctors begin to bring her back from a medically induced coma.
Rivers remains in "serious" condition, and the family is considering legal action, Melissa said, according to New York Daily News.

The 81-year-old comedian went into cardiac arrest during a surgical procedure on her throat on Thursday. She was rushed to Mount Sinai Hospital, where she was placed in a coma for her safety. 
A source close to the family told the Daily News that doctors started bringing Rivers out of her medically induced coma on Monday, a process that will take until Tuesday. 
When Rivers is fully out of the coma, doctors can then evaluate the extent of the damage caused by the period of time she was unable to breathe.
“There is real concern that the part of the brain that controls motor skills may have been compromised, leaving her as either a vegetable or in a wheelchair," the family source told the Daily News.
The newspaper also reported that Rivers' family may bring a lawsuit against Yorkville Endoscopy, the outpatient healthcare facility where the comedian underwent the surgery that resulted in life-threatening complications. “Shock and upset is turning to anger, and they are looking for someone to blame,” the source said.
The routine endoscopic procedure Rivers underwent involves using a small camera to look at the vocal cords. Any procedure involving the throat or vocal cords comes with a risk of spasm in the airway, called a laryngospasm, which can lead to depletion of oxygen and cardiac arrest. 
Joan Rivers' former writing partner, Jay Redack, told the New York Post that the comedian laughed off the routine procedure the night before. "She said her throat was bothering her for a long time," he said. "Her voice was getting more raspy, if that was possible. She said she was just going in for a little procedure in the morning, that was it."
Many celebrities, including Kathy Griffin, Donald Trump and Sarah Silverman have offered words of support on social media. 


Joan Rivers








Joan Rivers with Ed Sullivan on THE ED SULLIVAN SHOW on May 22, 1966.  

Image: CBS/Getty Images









Comedienne Joan Rivers trying to hail a cab while holding a wig in her hand in 1967.

Image: Truman Moore/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images









Comedian Joan Rivers poses for a portrait circa 1968 in New York City, New York. 

Image: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images









Actors Rodney Dangerfield, Dick Cavett and Joan Rivers in scene from film Portnoy's Complaint in 1971.

Image: Arthur Schatz/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images









Actor Gary Coleman and guest host Joan Rivers on the Johnny Carson Show in 1981.  

Image: Joseph Del Valle/NBC/Getty Images









Political comedian Mark Russell, musical guest Tony Orlando, fitness expert Richard Simmons, guest host Joan Rivers on the Johnny Carson show in 1981.  

Image: Paul Drinkwater/NBC/Getty Images









Mary Gross as Miss Demena, Eddie Murphy as Dr. Bengo Angoora, Joan Rivers as Sharon during the 'Caribbean Gyno' skit on April 9, 1983.

Image: Alan Singer/NBC/Getty Images









Edgar Rosenberg and Joan Rivers in 1983.

Image: The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Talk show host Oprah Winfrey during an interview with guest host Joan Rivers on January 27, 1986 on the Johnny Carson Show.  

Image: Paul Drinkwater/NBC/Getty Images









Joan Rivers and Dolly Parton during Sandy Gallin's Christmas Party - December 18, 1988 in Beverly Hills, California, United States. 

Image: Ron Galella/WireImage









Melissa Rivers and Joan Rivers with a Star on The Hollywood Walk of Fame - July 26, 1989 at Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.

Image: Ron Galella/WireImage/Getty Images









Comedienne Joan Rivers and actress Joan Collins in 1992.

Image: Time Life Pictures/DMI/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Carol Alt and Joan Rivers in 1994.

Image: The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Comedian/actress Joan Rivers doing embroidery as she sits on couch during the filming of 'Tears &amp; Laughter: The Joan &amp; Melissa Rivers Story', an autobiographical TV drama about the suicide of her husband Edgar Rosenberg in 1994.

Image: Acey Harper/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images









Joan Rivers wearing an eye patch at the wedding of friend Steve Hofflin at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 1997.

Image: Andrew Shawaf/Getty Images









Joan Rivers poses with her daughter Melissa Rivers and John Endicott on their wedding day, December 12, 1998 in New York City.

Image: Arnaldo Magnani/Getty Images









Comedienne Joan Rivers and daughter, television personality Melissa Rivers, at the Academy Awards in 2000.

Image: Mirek Towski/DMI/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Television Personality Joan Rivers attends the 11th Annual Race To Benefit God's Love We Deliver at Central Park on November 21, 2004 in New York City. 

Image: Gods Love We Deliver/Getty Images









Kelly Ripa, Regis Philbin and Joan Rivers during Regis Philbin and Kelly Ripa Host the Fourth Annual Relly Awards on "Live with Regis and Kelly" at ABC-TV Studios in Manhattan in New York City, New York in 2006.

Image: Marcel Thomas/FilmMagic









Joan Rivers and Robin Williams chat backstage at the Wimbledon Theatre after a charity performance in aid of the Prince's Trust on November 12, 2008 in London, England.  

Image: Anwar Hussein Collection/WireImage/Getty Images









Joan Rivers visits THE TALK, Friday, July 11, 2014 on the CBS Television Network.

Image: Sonja Flemming/CBS/Getty Images









Joan Rivers on the set of 'The Fashion Police' in 2014.

Image:  E!









TV personality Joan Rivers officiates the gay wedding of William "Jed" Ryan (L) and Joseph Aiello at the Plaza Athenee on August 15, 2014 in New York City.  

Image: Michael Loccisano/Getty Images






Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.