'Extant' Episodes 7-10 Recap: 'Everything Comes at a Cost' 'Extant' Episodes 7-10 Recap: 'Everything Comes at a Cost' Molly Woods (Halle Berry) in &quot;More in Heaven and Earth.&quot; Image:  Sonja Flemming/CBS

For the past two weeks, Extant has aired two episodes back-to-back, with 7 to 8 and 9 to 10 each functioning like continuous two-hour mini movies. They marked a turning point for the sci-fi series, which until now, had been largely lackluster and derivative of other similarly themed shows.
While Extant is not necessarily a slow-burn thriller, it took some time for the development of the series' two major plot lines — Molly Wood's alien offspring and the evolution of Humanich Ethan Woods — to pay off. In short, Extant has finally become compelling.


International Space Exploration Agency director Alan Sparks (Michael O'Neill) in "More in Heaven and Earth."Image:  Dale Robinette/CBSEpisodes 7 to 8 - "More in Heaven and Earth" and "Incursion"
After Molly realizes her life is in imminent danger, she confronts International Space Exploration Agency director Alan Sparks in his home, and plays video of his daughter Katie Sparks' last moments on the Aruna spaceship. At this point, Molly is acting reckless, telling Alan that she's determined to find her baby (previously, she was plotting against Alan and the ISEA in private, and now she's facing down her enemy out in the open). Moral of the story: Never incur a mother's wrath.
As predicted in my recap of episode 6, Harmon Kryger is still alive — however, he's tied up in the basement of ISEA deputy director (and drug addict) Gordon Kern's home. We learn that Gordon is quite religious, and feels conflicted over protecting the fetus, which Kryger suggests is godless. 
This clearly resonates with Gordon, who together with Harmon, helps Molly escape out of the building in which the fetus is housed (a.k.a. the former offices of Claypool Industries, a mining company that was secretly attached to the Aruna mission to search for a mysterious, life-sustaining substance coveted by Yasumoto Corporation CEO Hideki Yasumoto). After their tense encounter, Molly had followed Alan to the building, and snuck inside to see the fetus, but security forces were alerted to her presence.
"You are not its mother. You are its host," Harmon says, trying to convince Molly who remains unmoved. For his part, Gordon believes the ISEA shouldn't be treating the fetus or "alien intelligence" like a "lab rat."

From left to right: Femi Dodd (Annie Wersching), Molly Woods (Halle Berry), John Woods (Goran Visnjic) and Hideki Yasumoto (Hiroyuki Sanada) in "More in Heaven and Earth."Image:  Dale Robinette/CBSBecause of Molly's meddling, Alan tells Yasumoto that she is a threat to the fetus — now called "the offspring" — and says "It's time to eliminate that risk." In response, Yasumoto tells Alan to keep Molly alive, but to relocate the offspring to another contingency location. However, when the offspring has no more use for Molly, Yasumoto adds, "You can do what you wish." During their conversation, Yasumoto also reveals that the ISEA stumbled on an alien entity (perhaps the blue-colored "interlaced energy fields" seen in Seraphim videos?) where the life-sustaining substance was found on the meteor. 
ISEA researchers decide not to move the offspring, after they discover a leak in its container. At this point, Gordon and Harmon want to call of their plan to recover the offspring, but Molly insists on sticking to it. Gordon detonates a bomb on the main transformer, and tells all ISEA staff, including Alan, to evacuate. However, Harmon's snafu with the elevator exposes Gordon's betrayal of the ISEA, and Alan decides to stay put. 
But the offspring has other plans in mind. We finally see what Molly's baby is capable of, when he somehow controls the security team, forcing them to gun each other down. At the end of the episodes, Alan follows Molly to another area of the building to kill her, but she ends up being an illusion — transforming into a young version of Katie Sparks.  

Ethan Woods (Pierce Gagnon) in "More in Heaven and Earth."Image:  Dale Robinette/CBSThe other major storyline — involving Ethan's development — is even more compelling. His mental processing power is evolving at an extraordinarily fast pace, which concerns John. When he tries to install a governing mechanism to slow Ethan down, John is barred from doing so, and mistakenly accuses assistant Julie Gelineau of being the culprit. It's unclear who or what stopped John from installing the mechanism, but Ethan is a prime suspect. As Julie sarcastically puts it: "Why would the most advanced A.I. on the planet stop you from hobbling his mind?"
Rather than just processing things, Ethan is thinking and even questioning his own existence ("It doesn't get much more human than that," Julie rightly says). He is also becoming more rebellious; at one point, Ethan defies John's rules, and cycles to a park without permission. Extant seems like it's setting Ethan up to be a crusader for robot rights, especially after he insists on saving the garbage bot and declares "I should be stronger."
On a related note, Pierce Gagnon has become increasingly impressive in his portrayal of Ethan over the course of the season. His transition from creepy robot to human-like boy with an existential crisis is very convincing.
The biggest Ethan-related revelation of these episodes centers on Julie's mystery man, Odin. Unfortunately, his friendly relationship with Ethan masks more insidious intentions — as it turns, out Odin is part of an anti-technology group ("We outsource our humanity to technology," he proclaims to a group of people in a dark room). What's more, Femi Dodd (Annie Wersching) — Yasumoto's lover and a board member of Yasumoto Corporation — is also part of this underground group. Considering how skeptical she was of John's Humanich project earlier on in the season, this isn't all that surprising. One question that's raised, however, is: Does Yasumoto know about Femi's involvement?

Odin (Charlie Bewley) with Ethan Woods (Pierce Gagnon) in "Care and Feeding."Image:  Sonja Flemming/CBSOther noteworthy points

Cool tech: Molly transfers an image from her smartphone to an email she's composing on another monitor by simply swiping toward it. Bonus points for accuracy: This is a natural evolution of transferring files via NFC technology.
Odin's quote that "We out outsource war to machines" is timely, as the phenomenon of drones going to war is becoming more commonplace.
Hilarious line via Harmon: “How are we going to bring the offspring up? Tupperware?” 
Pointless red herring: The piece of glass on the ground that Harmon initially wants to use to escape from Gordon's basement. Gordon removes it, so Harmon ends up using a nail. What was the point?
How is Sam Barton getting away with divulging so much information to Molly? Isn't Alan supposed to be blackmailing her?


Molly Woods (Halle Berry) in "A Pack of Cards."Image:  Sonja Flemming/CBSEpisodes 9 to 10 - "Care and Feeding" and "A Pack of Cards"
After all the buildup in the first two episodes, Extant continues to drag out the suspense in episodes 9 and 10, failing to reward viewers by revealing the offspring's physical form. As a result, they're less compelling than episodes 7 and 8. 
Episodes 9 and 10 pick up right where 7 and 8 leave off: After fleeing from the contingency location, Alan quits his job and lies to Yasumoto over the phone, saying that the offspring escaped its chamber. He then takes young Katie and the offspring to a cabin resort called Wimberley Woods. In a last-ditch effort to reunite his family, Alan calls his ex-wife Anya to meet him, and eventually reveals Katie to her. Because he sees the offspring — which can conjure up visions of deceased loved ones — as the solution to his problems, Alan has been driven him to commit and attempt to commit murder in the name of protecting the offspring.
And protecting it isn't easy. The offspring requires two kinds of feeding: The first, eating food, enables it to grow exceptionally fast; the second, which isn't explicitly shown to viewers, seems to involve the offspring sucking out its victims' brains (and in the process, causing crop circle-esque rings to pop up on their foreheads), leaving them shells of their former selves.
Meanwhile, Harmon leaves Molly trapped inside the contingency location in order to find the offspring and kill it (this is an unpleasant, uncharacteristic move for Harmon, but it shows just how dangerous he thinks the offspring is). Harmon then teams up with Gordon to look for Alan, and they find their way to Wimberley Woods.

Hideki Yasumoto (Hiroyuki Sanada) in "A Pack of Cards."Image:  Dale Robinette/CBS For her part, Molly escapes from the contingency location, using several badass moves (including scaling an elevator shaft with heels on!) Yasumoto later admits to Molly that he was behind her pregnancy and the fetus' subsequent removal. Yasumoto then convinces Molly that he wants to save the offspring, and she agrees to let him help her — a poor decision in our opinion; how can she trust him after all he's done?
Enter Dr. Mason (Owain Yeoman), who Yasumoto has enlisted to supposedly help Molly recover the offspring (but more likely keep an eye on her). Following Molly's failed escape attempt, Dr. Mason, who acts suspiciously benevolent, drives her to Wimberley Woods.
As soon as Molly enters the room in which the offspring is located, it manipulates her into having hallucinations that take her back to the aftermath of the car accident that killed Marcus. In reality, Molly's mind is being controlled, and she is forced to enter her ISEA password into a computer, which diverts the Seraphim back to Earth — and completes the offspring's mysterious mission.
There was less focus on Ethan's storyline in episodes 9 and 10, but we see Odin continue to earn the Humanich's trust by manipulating him. As a result, Ethan pushes John away, thinking his father doesn't know as much as Odin does (e.g. the incident in which Ethan holds his hand over a burning flame). Also, while Molly was out trying to find the offspring, Yasumoto was preventing John and Ethan from leaving his house. The episodes end with Ethan escaping to John's lab, but getting intercepted by Odin.

Dr. Mason (Owain Yeoman)  with Molly Woods (Halle Berry) in "A Pack of Cards."Image:  Sonja Flemming/CBSOther noteworthy points

Cool tech: Alan's disposable cell phone, night-vision contacts with augmented reality worn by one of Yasumoto's henchman and the Tesla police car
Wimberley Woods looks like a great place to stay — check out those futuristic dome-style cabins!
This time, Harmon is definitely dead. According to actor Brad Beyer's IMDB page, his seven-episode stint on Extant ended with "A Pack of Cards."
It's becoming clear that all those deceased loved ones conjured up by the offspring are just visions — all of them have a generic personality that only serves the offspring.

Extant airs every Wednesday at 9 p.m. ET on CBS.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.