Stars chime in on nude photo hack Stars chime in on nude photo hack Is Ricky Gervais victim blaming?After a lengthy list of female A-list stars' nude photos were recently leaked on the Web, including Jennifer Lawrence, Kate Upton and Kirsten Dunst, Gervais took to Twitter to express his controversial opinion."Celebrities, make it harder for hackers to get nude pics of you from your computer by not putting nude pics of yourself on your computer," he tweeted, before eventually deleting the post due to the not surprising backlash.He later defended himself in a series of tweets:Making a joke about a thing doesn't mean you condone that thing. Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais) September 1, 2014Of course the hackers are 100% to blame but you can still makes jokes about it. Jokes don't portray your true serious feelings on a subject Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais) September 1, 2014It's more important to spend your energy trying to stop actual bad things than to run around trying to stop jokes about bad things. Ricky Gervais (@rickygervais) September 1, 2014Gervais, 53, isn't the only celeb commenting on the nude photo scandal despite not being directly involved.Seth Rogen, 32, took to Twitter to blast those posting the illegally obtained photos:Posting pics hacked from someone's cell phone is really no different than selling stolen merchandise. Seth Rogen (@Sethrogen) August 31, 2014I obviously am not comparing women to merchandise. Just legally speaking, it shouldn't be tolerated to repost stolen pics. Seth Rogen (@Sethrogen) August 31, 2014He then linked to a Forbes article with the title, "Jennifer Lawrence Nude Photo Leak Isn't A 'Scandal.' It's A Sex Crime."Emma Watson, 24, also defended her fellow actresses:Even worse than seeing women's privacy violated on social media is reading the accompanying comments that show such a lack of empathy. Emma Watson (@EmWatson) September 1, 2014Lena Dunham, 28, was much more vocal:The way in which you share your body must be a CHOICE. Support these women and do not look at these pictures. Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) September 1, 2014Remember, when you look at these pictures you are violating these women again and again. It's not okay. Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) September 1, 2014Seriously, do not forget that the person who stole these pictures and leaked them is not a hacker: they're a sex offender. Lena Dunham (@lenadunham) September 1, 2014Though "Pitch Perfect" star Anna Kendrick, 29, took a more lighthearted approach to the subject, posting a screen shot of her brother Mike's text message that read, "I have never been happier to not see your name on a list," she replied. "Don't worry bro, it would just be photos of food and other people's dogs anyway."Tell us: What's your take on the nude photos leak? 