Josh Greenstein Marketing Chief Leaving Paramount As Colligan, Others Re-UP Josh Greenstein Marketing Chief Leaving Paramount As Colligan, Others Re-UP Josh Greenstein, chief marketing officer since 2011, will not be staying at Paramount Pictures and is expected to join Sony Pictures Entertainment when his contract ends on Dec. 31st. Paramount just announced that Megan Colligan has re-upped, having been promoted to President, Worldwide Distribution and Marketing. overseeing that area for Paramount&rsquo;s theatrical and home media. She will continue to report to Rob Moore. In shoring up its ranks after Greenstein&rsquo;s departure, Erik Counter has also been upped to president, worldwide creative advertising and will now report to Moore. Meanwhile, Steve Siskind has been promoted to domestic marketing, reporting to Colligan. The moves come after Greenstein and Paramount have been negotiating back and forth for months and as Sony has been wanting to shore up its marketing ranks. Apparently, Paramount thought the deal with Greenstein was all but signed when he went back to Sony and they counter-offered. One of the strongest creative executives in the business, the well-regarded Greenstein is expected to join Sony with a lofty title. More to come.
					
						Related
						Paramount Sets October 'Men, Women &amp; Children' Dates
						
					
				The affable Colligan has been part of the studio since 2006. With these structural changes, the studio is putting a strong vote of confidence with Colligan&rsquo;s leadership abilities as she will now manage domestic and international theatrical as well as home media distribution.PREVIOUSLY August, 24th: Josh Greenstein, who has been Paramount Pictures&lsquo; chief marketing officer since 2011 and whose name has been bandied about for the big Sony marketing job, is now negotiating with Paramount to stay put. This after the walloping opening of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles this weekend &mdash; a $65M haul which surprised the heck out of everyone. And, let&rsquo;s face it, a lot of the credit goes to the marketing department at Paramount. If the deal goes through, that would take both him and former marketing exec Oren Aviv out of the mix for the Sony position.
			
					Recent Comments
					
						Add Comment
						4 People Commenting
					
					
				

				
				hardwickDonn
				
				3 weeks
				Let's see how he handles Selma. Hopefully, better than Uni's unsophisticated James Brown.
			
				utazdevl
				
				3 weeks
				... And BLT sighed in relief.
			
				Check that
				
				3 weeks
				Or Tony Sella. Who could turn around Sony in a heartbeat.
			

				

			
			RELATED: Oren Aviv Expected Over at STX EntertainmentGreenstein&rsquo;s negotiations with the studio also come after&nbsp;opening such pics as Transformers: Age of Extinction, Anchorman 2 and The Wolf of Wall Street (to name a few). It was thought Greenstein would&nbsp;exit the studio last year, but then Paramount kept him engaged for another year as it released Noah, a fairly risky big-budget film. Greenstein did not return calls about negotiations. A&nbsp;Paramount insider confirmed this AM that he was, indeed, in negotiations to re-up but had no further comment.The talks came&nbsp;after Sony&nbsp;inquiries a&nbsp;couple of weeks ago, leading Paramount to offer the town&rsquo;s creative master another contract. Now, sources said he is negotiating a longer-term deal. Greenstein is one of the industry&rsquo;s strongest marketing executives and well respected for his creative acumen. Looking forward, he will be marketing of such studio franchises as&nbsp;Star Trek 3 and Beverly Hills Cop 4, along with&nbsp;potential moneymakers such as&nbsp;Turtles.Greenstein was previously exec VP of creative advertising at Paramount and has a great institutional knowledge of important studio franchises such as the aforementioned Transformers and Anchorman as well as Iron Man, Paranormal Activity, the Mission: Impossible series and Jackass. He assumed the marketing post in 2008&nbsp;after&nbsp;joining Paramount in 2005. Previously, he served as marketing head for Dimension Films, where he ran the campaigns for Sin City, Scary Movie and Spy Kids.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;