'The Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story' Recap: Screech, Interrupted 'The Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story' Recap: Screech, Interrupted Lifetime's 'Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story' was less scandalous than expected.Image:  Lifetime

A certain level of juicy, largely untrue scandalousness may have been implied in the title of Lifetime's latest TV movie offering, The Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story, but the truth is that the film, about the making of the popular '90s sitcom, somehow failed to live up to low standards, delivering below-Sharknado levels of camp. 
Instead of a dirt-filled gossipfest, we got a Screech-narrated tale that no one asked for, portrayed by a distractingly miniature cast of people who looked nothing like our Bayside High School faves. (Seriously, they brought back the original casting director and this was what we got? Was she wearing drunk goggles?) 

Yes, we were bummed. But not too bummed to skip detailing every minute of the groan-worthy film we've been eagerly awaiting.
dit-name="Lifetime" data-credit-label="" data-credit-provider="Custom type" data-caption="'The Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story' put a spotlight on Screech (Sam Kindseth)." title="SBtB-Screech" src="http://mashable.com/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/SBtB-Screetch.jpg" alt="SBtB-Screech" width="2258" height="1270" class="" /&gt;
Diamond has it rough
The film began with Screech/Dustin Diamond (Sam Kindseth) taking the reigns of narration over from Zack/Mark-Paul Gosselaar (Dylan Everett) for the entire length of the movie. Meaning, Screech was allowed to call a "time-out" like this:
 
If you're thinking that Screech is not the type of character who is cool enough to pull this off, you're right. And neither was TV Movie Dustin Diamond. 
But Diamond knew he wasn't cool and had a complex about it the entire film, which picked up at the start of  Good Morning Miss Bliss (the Disney Channel TV show that spurred SBtB on NBC) and concluded with the on-screen graduation of the Bayside gang.  
In fact, much of Diamond's behind the scenes emotional turmoil was the driving force of the movie's story — from his domineering stage dad to his feelings of inferiority among his good looking cast members to his general lack of true friends.
Well, he did have one friend during the movie — a bad influence he made while roaming the stages of the Saved by the Bell set. This boy introduced him to pot and drinking and only wanted to be his friend so he could try to get a role on the show. The Internet also thought the friend might be imaginary, which probably wasn't true but would have made the movie 100% more interesting. 

Is Dustin's sketchy Asian friend imaginary or...
— Marc Snetiker (@MarcSnetiker) September 2, 2014


Man, Screech’s imaginary friend The Asian Great Gazoo should have been in every scene of this. #Unauthorized
— Daniel Fienberg (@HitFixDaniel) September 2, 2014

In another bizarre scene, Diamond's jealousy about his co-stars' smooth ways with the ladies led to a pink-rimmed dream sequence in which he imagined himself with Johnny Bravo muscles, blond hair and a hot tub of ladies.

So this is happening. #UnauthorizedSavedByTheBellStory pic.twitter.com/YfMrFpKpYW
— People magazine (@peoplemag) September 2, 2014

You're welcome for the nightmares.
But Diamond's dream sequence wasn't even the biggest headscratcher. That honor goes to a painfully anachronistic "that's what she said" joke that Diamond told the possibly imaginary friend while high as a kite. 

A "That's what she said" joke? Screech was AHEAD OF HIS TIME! #UnauthorizedSavedByTheBellStory
— Sandra Gonzalez (@TheSandraG) September 2, 2014

In the words of Mr. Belding, Hey, hey, hey, what is going on here?

Zack (Dylan Everett): Ladies manOff-screen romance
Much like the show itself, the TV movie was far more interesting when it focused on the romantic relationships.
Particularly, the time dedicated to telling the story of Lark Voorhies' (Taylor Russell McKenzie) budding off-screen romance with Gosselaar was kind of fun — or would have been if both actors looked north of 11 years old. 

Is Zack shrinking?
— Tim Stack (@EWTimStack) September 2, 2014

Less attention was paid to Tiffani-Amber Thiessen's (Alyssa Lynch) time dating Gosselaar. And even less attention was paid to properly feathering the character's infamous bangs to accurately reflect the look of the time. How disrespectful. 

@TheSandraG Brunette hair is about all she shares with TAT.
— Matt Mitovich (@MattMitovich) September 2, 2014

Mario Lopez (Julian Works) was not shown in any major relationships because apparently he preferred giving tours of dimly lit sets to fans (creepy) and winking like a slimy used car salesman with a tick. Real-life Diamond, who was an executive producer on the movie, was clearly not a Lopez fan. 
Diamond also wasn't an NBC fan, for that matter, as one executive in particular was shown to be mildly racist, creatively out of touch and overbearing.

Jesse Spano (Tiera Skovbye) was very excited about her addiction storyline.Image:  Lifetime...I'm so scared
Widely excluded from the personal drama — how Jesse-like of her —  was Elizabeth Berkley (Tiera Skovbye), whose main storyline in the film involved her fight to get more serious subjects inserted into Bell scripts. 
That quest, it seems, resulted in Jesse Spano's addiction to caffeine pills — a  Saved by the Bell moment that will never forget. 
 
This movie, meanwhile? We're ok forgetting that. 
Poll time!

What did you think of 'The Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story'?

What movie should Lifetime make next?