Joan Rivers Is Still on Life Support Joan Rivers Is Still on Life Support Joan and Melissa Rivers pose for a portrait at VH1's Do Something Awards at Avalon on July 31, 2013, in Hollywood, California.Image: Christopher Polk/Getty Images for VH1

Joan Rivers remains on life support after suffering cardiac arrest during throat surgery on Aug. 28, her daughter Melissa Rivers said Tuesday.
"On behalf of my mother and our family, we are extremely grateful for all the love and support we've received," Rivers, 46, said in statement Mashable confirmed with her team.

"At this time she does remain on life support," she added. "I know my mother would be overwhelmed by the continued outpouring of kindness and I want to thank everyone for keeping us in their prayers."
Over Labor Day weekend, reports surfaced indicating that doctors began taking the 81-year-old comedian out of medically induced coma in order to assess her health and the brain damage that the cardiac arrest caused.
Rivers was rushed to Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City on Thursday after she stopped breathing during a endoscopic procedure on her throat at Yorkville Endoscopy. In an episode of Joan &amp; Melissa: Joan Knows Best? last year, a doctor checked out Rivers' cough and discovered a potential cancerous spot.
Melissa Rivers has released several statements since her mother was hospitalized.


Joan Rivers








Joan Rivers with Ed Sullivan on THE ED SULLIVAN SHOW on May 22, 1966.  

Image: CBS/Getty Images









Comedienne Joan Rivers trying to hail a cab while holding a wig in her hand in 1967.

Image: Truman Moore/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images









Comedian Joan Rivers poses for a portrait circa 1968 in New York City, New York. 

Image: Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images









Actors Rodney Dangerfield, Dick Cavett and Joan Rivers in scene from film Portnoy's Complaint in 1971.

Image: Arthur Schatz/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images









Actor Gary Coleman and guest host Joan Rivers on the Johnny Carson Show in 1981.  

Image: Joseph Del Valle/NBC/Getty Images









Political comedian Mark Russell, musical guest Tony Orlando, fitness expert Richard Simmons, guest host Joan Rivers on the Johnny Carson show in 1981.  

Image: Paul Drinkwater/NBC/Getty Images









Mary Gross as Miss Demena, Eddie Murphy as Dr. Bengo Angoora, Joan Rivers as Sharon during the 'Caribbean Gyno' skit on April 9, 1983.

Image: Alan Singer/NBC/Getty Images









Edgar Rosenberg and Joan Rivers in 1983.

Image: The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Talk show host Oprah Winfrey during an interview with guest host Joan Rivers on January 27, 1986 on the Johnny Carson Show.  

Image: Paul Drinkwater/NBC/Getty Images









Joan Rivers and Dolly Parton during Sandy Gallin's Christmas Party - December 18, 1988 in Beverly Hills, California, United States. 

Image: Ron Galella/WireImage









Melissa Rivers and Joan Rivers with a Star on The Hollywood Walk of Fame - July 26, 1989 at Hollywood Boulevard in Hollywood, California.

Image: Ron Galella/WireImage/Getty Images









Comedienne Joan Rivers and actress Joan Collins in 1992.

Image: Time Life Pictures/DMI/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Carol Alt and Joan Rivers in 1994.

Image: The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Comedian/actress Joan Rivers doing embroidery as she sits on couch during the filming of 'Tears &amp; Laughter: The Joan &amp; Melissa Rivers Story', an autobiographical TV drama about the suicide of her husband Edgar Rosenberg in 1994.

Image: Acey Harper/The LIFE Images Collection/Getty Images









Joan Rivers wearing an eye patch at the wedding of friend Steve Hofflin at the Beverly Hills Hotel in 1997.

Image: Andrew Shawaf/Getty Images









Joan Rivers poses with her daughter Melissa Rivers and John Endicott on their wedding day, December 12, 1998 in New York City.

Image: Arnaldo Magnani/Getty Images









Comedienne Joan Rivers and daughter, television personality Melissa Rivers, at the Academy Awards in 2000.

Image: Mirek Towski/DMI/The LIFE Picture Collection/Getty Images









Television Personality Joan Rivers attends the 11th Annual Race To Benefit God's Love We Deliver at Central Park on November 21, 2004 in New York City. 

Image: Gods Love We Deliver/Getty Images









Kelly Ripa, Regis Philbin and Joan Rivers during Regis Philbin and Kelly Ripa Host the Fourth Annual Relly Awards on "Live with Regis and Kelly" at ABC-TV Studios in Manhattan in New York City, New York in 2006.

Image: Marcel Thomas/FilmMagic









Joan Rivers and Robin Williams chat backstage at the Wimbledon Theatre after a charity performance in aid of the Prince's Trust on November 12, 2008 in London, England.  

Image: Anwar Hussein Collection/WireImage/Getty Images









Joan Rivers visits THE TALK, Friday, July 11, 2014 on the CBS Television Network.

Image: Sonja Flemming/CBS/Getty Images









Joan Rivers on the set of 'The Fashion Police' in 2014.

Image:  E!









TV personality Joan Rivers officiates the gay wedding of William "Jed" Ryan (L) and Joseph Aiello at the Plaza Athenee on August 15, 2014 in New York City.  

Image: Michael Loccisano/Getty Images






Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.