The Road to Russia: USMNT Opens 2018 World Cup Journey in Prague The Road to Russia: USMNT Opens 2018 World Cup Journey in Prague Jurgen Klinsmann and the gang are back in action. Image: Francisco Leong/AFP/Getty Images

The World Cup never really ends, you know. 
Brazil is in the past, but the hearts and minds of men's soccer fans everywhere are already beginning to dream of the 2018 World Cup in Russia. It's never too early, you see, to consider the glory, possibilities and drama that come with the biggest stage in sports.  
The United States Men's National Team (USMNT) officially starts its long journey to the 2018 World Cup on Wednesday in Prague, where it takes on host Czech Republic in an international friendly. It's the USMNT's first match since losing to Belgium in heart-breaking fashion in the 2014 World Cup's knockout stage. 

Here's what you need to know before the match to keep your USMNT fandom going. 
When, where and how to watch
The match kicks off at 2:15 p.m. ET. It's being broadcast on NBCSN (formerly known as the NBC Sports Network). You can also watch via computer or smartphone using the NBC Sports Live Extra app, but you'll need cable login credentials to do so. 
The Czech Republic hasn't qualified for a World Cup since 2006, and is currently ranked 35th in FIFA's world rankings (the U.S. is ranked 18th).
What's at stake?

Jozy Altidore will suit up for the USMNT for the first time since getting hurt in its first World Cup game in Brazil. Image: Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated PressFor the team as a whole: nothing. It's a friendly, so the results don't actually count for anything. But for many of the players who will don the red, white and blue, it's a critical chance to make a favorable impression on USMNT coach Jurgen Klinsmann to remain in the U.S. Soccer picture when the 2018 World Cup qualifying campaign begins. 
It's also a prime opportunity for American soccer fans to get to know — or even see for the first time — prospects and younger players who will undoubtedly play major roles in U.S. soccer in the coming years. Who knows? The USMNT's big star at the 2018 World Cup in Russia could be someone who takes the pitch to little fanfare on Wednesday. 
The USMNT also has major international tournaments coming each of the next two summers, so there's no shortage of motivation for the players in Prague to do well Wednesday. 
Out with the old, in with the new (for now)

Michael Bradley and Clint Dempsey: Not making the trip to Prague. Image: Ricardo Mazalan/Associated PressHere are some players you probably recognize from Brazil, but won't see suited up for the U.S. on Wednesday: Michael Bradley, Clint Dempsey, Tim Howard, Jermaine Jones, Kyle Beckerman, Omar Gonzalez, Graham Zusi and Matt Besler, just to name a few. 
Why? Most of those guys play in MLS. Because Wednesday's match is in Prague, Klinsmann selected a roster almost exclusively made up of players who ply their trade for European club teams. He also chose a roster of younger players who can use all the seasoning and evaluation they can get. 
“It’s an especially good opportunity for us to look at the younger players based in Europe, which we don’t get to do very often because of their schedules," Klinsmann said last week. "We can’t bring them into the January camp where we get to work with a lot of the up-and-coming talent, so for players like Joe Gyau, Emerson Hyndman, Rubio Rubin and Bobby Wood, it’s a great chance for them to experience our environment, and for us we get to know these guys better and see what they can do.”
Rest assured players such as Bradley, Dempsey, Gonzalez, Zusi and Besler will be back on the U.S. team when the matches start to count again. Meanwhile, here's the full USMNT roster Klinsmann called into camp for Wednesday's friendly (club teams in parentheses):
Goalkeepers: Cody Cropper (Southampton), Brad Guzan (Aston Villa), Nick Rimando (Real Salt Lake)Defenders: John Brooks (Hertha Berlin), Geoff Cameron (Stoke City), Timmy Chandler (Eintracht Frankfurt), Greg Garza (Club Tijuana), Fabian Johnson (Borussia Mönchengladbach), Michael Orozco (Puebla), Tim Ream (Bolton)Midfielders: Alejandro Bedoya (Nantes), Joe Corona (Club Tijuana), Mix Diskerud (Rosenborg), Julian Green (Bayern Munich), Emerson Hyndman (Fulham), Alfredo Morales (Ingolstadt), Brek Shea (Stoke City)Forwards: Jozy Altidore (Sunderland), Joe Gyau (Borussia Dortmund II), Jordan Morris (Stanford), Rubio Rubin (Utrecht), Bobby Wood (1860 Munich)
Julian Green watch continues

Julian Green's World Cup goal against Belgium has many USMNT fans salivating about his future. Image: Themba Hadebe/Associated PressGreen — an extremely talented but unproven 19-year-old — came out of nowhere this spring to land a spot on the USMNT squad for Brazil after Klinsmann persuaded him to commit his international future to the U.S. over Germany, where he also has citizenship. Green then warmed the bench before coming on in extra time against Belgium to score a goal on the first World Cup touch of his career, and become the youngest player to score in a World Cup since Lionel Messi in 2006. 
Needless to say, the expectations on Green are quite high. 
The next three-and-a-half years will be critical for his growth from intriguing prospect to featured player with the USMNT, and that journey begins Wednesday with the dawn of a new World Cup cycle. Look to see how he performs as a focal point of the team, how much confidence he displays on the attack, how he interacts with other young teammates and how he holds up against bigger, stronger defenders. 
The weekend also brought good news about Green from an American perspective. Bayern Munich — one of the world's top clubs, but one log-jammed with more seasoned talent ahead of him — just loaned Green to Hamburg for the season. It's a win-win-win situation: Green will get more playing time and much-needed experience, Klinsmann and other USMNT coaches will get a better look at what he can do and Bayern can let him develop in real games instead of watching global superstars from the bench. 
Life after Tim Howard starts now

Nick Rimando (center) and Brad Guzan (right) must follow in the extra-large footsteps of Tim Howard (left). Image: Behrouz Mehri/AFP/Getty ImagesAmerican goalkeeping hero Howard announced in August that he's taking a very well-deserved break from international competition for at least the next year. At 35 years old, whether Howard returns to the squad in any full capacity — and especially whether he starts in goal in 2018 — is no sure thing. 
That's why Life After Tim essentially starts on Wednesday. 
Brad Guzan, who starts for Aston Villa in the English Premier League, is widely believed to be Howard's heir apparent, but Real Salt Lake goalie Nick Rimando provides some stiff competition for the starting spot. Rimando is the lone MLS player Klinsmann called to camp for the Czech Republic match, and the coach says each man will play a half on Wednesday. 
How Guzan and Rimando perform in Prague won't make or break either of them — far, far from it, in fact. The road to Russia is long and unpredictable, but we already know two things for sure: The journey starts Wednesday against the Czech Republic, and 2018 can't get here soon enough. 
BONUS: 50 Stunning Sports Photos From 2013



50 Amazing Sports Photos From 2013







1. Jamaica's Usain Bolt wins the 100-meter final at the 2013 IAAF World Championships in Moscow on Aug. 11 as lightning strikes in the sky above Luzhniki Stadium.


Image: Olivier Morin/AFP/Getty Images








2. LeBron James moments before leading the Miami Heat to a win over the Indiana Pacers in Game 7 of the NBA's Eastern Conference Finals on June 3. 


Image: Chris Trotman/Getty Images








3. Pro lacrosse player Stephen Berger of the New York Lizards gets encouragement from young fans before a May 31 game. 


Image: Jim McIsaac/Getty Images








4. Gabriel Gonzaga employs a guillotine choke submission against Ben Rothwell in their heavyweight MMA fight on Jan. 19 in Sao Paulo, Brazil. 


Image: Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images








5. Uruguay takes on Italy for 3rd place at the FIFA Confederations Cup in Brazil on June 30. 


Image: Handout/Shaun Botterill/FIFA via Getty Images








6. Jarrett Jack of the Golden State Warriors celebrates a basket as fans go wild during a Feb. 22 game against the San Antonio Spurs. 


Image: Ezra Shaw/Getty Images








7. Major League Baseball rookies George Kottaras of the Kansas City Royals and Robbie Ross of the Texas Rangers compete in a cow milking contest on June 1. 


Image: Rick Yeatts/Getty Images








8. Sergy Nazin of Russia competes in the world diving championships as Barcelona's iconic Sagrada Família cathedral looms in the background on July 28. 


Image: Al Bello/Getty Images








9. Baseball fans display the full range of human emotion while trying to catch an Aug. 28 foul ball at Fenway Park. 


Image: Jim Davis/The Boston Globe via Getty Images








10. Halima Hachlaf of Morocco lies on the track after competing in the women's 800-meter semifinals IAAF World Athletics Championships in Moscow on Aug. 16. 


Image: Christian Petersen/Getty Images








11. Boats zip between Alcatraz Island and the San Francisco skyline during the fifth race of the America's Cup Finals on Sept. 10. 


Image: Jamie Squire/Getty Images








12. Yekaterina Rudenko of Kazakhstan competes at the International Swimming Federation championships in Barcelona on July 31.


Image: Quinn Rooney/Getty Images








13. The United States takes on Costa Rica in a World Cup qualifying match amid driving snow on March 22 in Commerce City, Colo. 


Image: Dustin Bradford/Getty Images








14. Novak Djokovic celebrates after winning the Australian Open over Andy Murray on Jan. 27.


Image: Ryan Pierse/Getty Images








15. Notre Dame running back Cam McDaniel hilariously maintains perfect composure while getting tackled after losing his helmet on Oct. 19. 


Image: Jonathan Daniel/Getty Images








16. A prosthetic leg stands alone by the pool during the International Paralympic Committee's world swimming championship on Aug. 15. 


Image: Charles Laberge/Getty Images








17. David Luiz of Brazil is ecstatic after a teammate's goal during the Confederations Cup on June 15. 


Image: Dean Mouhtaropoulos/Getty Images








18. Japanese officials react after Tokyo is awarded the 2020 Olympics at an announcement ceremony in Buenos Aires. 


Image: Ian Walton/Getty Images








19. Danny Garcia lands a bloody punch on Zab Judah during their championship boxing match on April 27. 


Image: Elsa/Getty Images








20. Zafar Gohar of Pakistan and Ben Duckett of England face off in an international under-19 cricket match on Aug. 19. 


Image: Laurence Griffiths/Getty Images








21. An alligator guards the 14th fairway at an April 25 golf tournament in Avondale, La. 



Image: Chris Graythen/Getty Images








22. A Boston police officer at Fenway Park loses himself in the moment, celebrating a Red Sox home run in a come-from-behind win during the MLB playoffs on Oct. 13. 


Image: Al Bello/Getty Images








23. Butler coach Brad Stevens endures a moment of agony after a ref's whistle during the NCAA Tournament on March 23. 


Image: Andy Lyons/Getty Images








24. The Saints logo lines up perfectly behind quarterback Drew Brees at the Superdome in New Orleans on Sept. 8. 


Image: Chris Graythen/Getty Images








25. Maria Sharapova plays a backhand during the Australian Open quarterfinals on Jan. 22. 


Image: Julian Finney/Getty Images








26. A man watches the Brazilian national soccer team from a favela bar in Rio de Janeiro on June 9. 


Image: Laurence Griffiths/Getty Images








27. Jehue Gordon of Trinidad and Tobago just beats American Michael Tinsley in the world 400-meter hurdles championship in Moscow on Aug. 15. 


Image: Mark Kolbe/Getty Images








28. Boston Marathon bombing victim Jeff Bauman greets the crowd before the Boston Bruins' NHL playoff game on May 4. 


Image: Brian Babineau/NHLI via Getty Images








29. Fred Jackson after scoring a touchdown for the Buffalo Bills on Dec. 1.  


Image: Rick Stewart/Getty Images








30. Man versus bull at the National Rodeo Finals on Australia's Gold Coast on June 16. 


Image: Matt Roberts/Getty Images








31. Parrish Cox of the 49ers is a lonely man amid the Ravens' victory celebration following Super Bowl XLVII on Feb. 3. 



Image: Mike Ehrmann/Getty Images








32. Alabama's Bryant-Denny Stadium during a college football game on Sept. 21. 


Image: Kevin C. Cox/Getty Images








33. Carmelo Anthony sails into the crowd while chasing a loose ball for the New York Knicks during a May 1 playoff game. 


Image: Al Bello/Getty Images








34. Ryan Mathews runs from defenders during an NFL game on Nov. 17. 


Image:  Streeter Lecka/Getty Images








35. A Philadelphia Eagles cheerleader performs during a game on Sept. 15.  


Image: Patrick Smith/Getty Images








36. Double amputee Chris Moon runs in the 135-mile Badwater ultra-marathon race on July 15 in Death Valley National Park, Calif. 


Image: David McNew/Getty Images








37. Kite-boarders compete on San Francisco Bay on June 7. 


Image: Ezra Shaw/Getty Images








38. Arizona's Kevin Parrom sells a foul during the Pac-12 tournament on March 14. 


Image: Jeff Gross/Getty Images








39. Legendary NFL linebacker Ray Lewis after one of the final playoff games of his career on Jan. 6. 


Image: Patrick Smith/Getty Images








40. A young fan welcomes his heroes onto the ice before an NHL game in Raleigh, N.C., on Jan. 22. 


Image: Grant Halverson/Getty Images








41. Sunlight casts shadows during an April 21 IndyCar race on the streets of Long Beach, Calif. 


Image: Robert Laberge/Getty Images








42. Two hockey players duke it out during an NHL game. 


Image: Jana Chytilova/Freestyle Photography/Getty Images








43. Peter Mel rides a wave during the Maverick's Invitational surf competition on Jan. 20 in Half Moon Bay. 


Image: Ezra Shaw/Getty Images








44. Pitcher Erik Bedard of the Houston Astros casts a long shadow on May 29. 


Image: Doug Pensinger/Getty Images








45. Andrei Kirilenko of the Brooklyn Nets is framed by the rim while reaching for the ball on Nov. 1. 


Image: Al Bello/Getty Images








46. Greg Owen hits a shot on Feb. 7 at the Monterey Peninsula Country Club in Pebble Beach, Calif. 


Image: Jeff Gross/Getty Images








47. A rainbow appears over Camden Yards during a game between the Baltimore Orioles and New York Yankees on June 28. 


Image: Patrick Smith/Getty Images








48. The field of the 138th running of the Preakness Stakes in Baltimore on May 28. 


Image: Patrick Smith/Getty Images








49. Russ Smith of the Louisville Cardinals tumbles into his own team's bench during a game at Madison Square Garden on March 16. 


Image: Elsa/Getty Images








50. WBO welterweight champion Timothy Bradley, Jr., preens after defeating Juan Manual Marquez on Oct. 12. 





