Music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja talks about dad Ilaiyaraja, converting to Islam Music composer Yuvan Shankar Raja talks about dad Ilaiyaraja, converting to Islam 
					Yuvan Shankar Raja&rsquo;s name is synonymous with melodies, but that said, he&rsquo;s quite low-key for a top music director. With Michael Jackson as his idol and his father, the legendary composer Illaiyaraaja, as his inspiration, Raja has made a name for himself in the Tamil film industry. Now, Raja has made his foray into Bollywood with the music for Emraan Hashmi&rsquo;s Raja Natwarlal and says he is ready to head to Hollywood.Being the son of an illustrious dad, Ilaiyaraaja, must put a lot of pressure on you.I only felt that pressure when I started my career. But I didn&rsquo;t let that get to me. I just focused on my work. As for what he thinks about my journey so far, I don&rsquo;t know! He&rsquo;s not openly said anything to me. (Laughs) There&rsquo;s no one to compare with my dad &ndash; his achievements or dedication to music. I have not consciously tried to carve a musical identity different from my dad&rsquo;s. I just did what I wanted to do. I enjoy composing melody songs because they are the ones that last forever.What are some of your favourite songs?My dad&rsquo;s music. It&rsquo;s most of his songs that you&rsquo;ll find on my playlist. There are so many film tracks of his that I love. Like Mouna Ragam and Pagal Nilavu. Too many to name!Your dad and Mani Ratnam have delivered superhits. Wouldn&rsquo;t you like to work with Mani Ratnam too?Mani Ratnam works with A R Rahman now and I wouldn&rsquo;t want to break up that team! They have delivered superhits.You&rsquo;d said your elder brother Karthik (a Trinity School of Music graduate) is the most talented but you, being a school drop-out, are the most successful.Marketing yourself and PR matters a lot today. You need to make people aware that you are &lsquo;alive&rsquo;. You need to have a good rapport with producers, directors, etc, and keep in touch with them on a regular basis. They need to comfortable with you. Once that rapport is established, they&rsquo;ll think of you when they&rsquo;re making a film.You&rsquo;re making your entry into Bollywood with Raja Natwarlal.Raja Natwarlal happened through music director Pritam. He recommended me to director Kunal Deshmukh who approached me. I was really surprised because it&rsquo;s very hard for one music composer to recommend another! It was very sweet of Pritam to do that. &hellip; I did get Bollywood offers but I was busy with my South projects so I didn&rsquo;t have time for anything else. I was also very particular about the production house (I didn&rsquo;t want the movie to get dropped), a good star cast, etc. And I didn&rsquo;t get what I wanted. Emraan Hashmi is known for great musical hits and I liked the whole idea of the script of Raja Natwarlal. So I signed this on.How different is it to compose for music in Bollywood versus the South?I personally feel it&rsquo;s not different since music doesn&rsquo;t have a language or any barrier. If I am able to sing a tune, you should be able to connect to it. In Hindi, there are songs where I don&rsquo;t understand the lyrics but I am able to connect to the tune. I have friends in Mumbai who don&rsquo;t know Tamil, but listen to my songs and they tell me they love them.You were very close to you mom and converted to Islam after her passing. Are you on a personal quest?The search has always been there and it will always be there. Where your heart makes you feel at home is what matters. Where the innermost soul is most comfortable is important for a person to survive. I felt Islam comforted me in a way that I was seeking. My mom&rsquo;s passing (in 2011) was very difficult for me but at the end of the day, I started taking it on a positive note. The one thing I have learnt is that regardless of what you have, who you have with you, life keeps going on. That&rsquo;s how the world functions.As for being a loner, everyone is! My logic in life is - we come alone, we go alone. This is the ultimate truth and philosophy of life. My mom wanted me to keep going and keep achieving. And that&rsquo;s always there in my mind &ndash; keep going, keep working hard, don&rsquo;t give up.You've had two love marriages, both of which ended in divorce. What&rsquo;s your view on marriage now?Marriage is about compatibility. At the end of the day, you need a partner. I think it&rsquo;s important to have a partner. You need someone to share your thoughts with and to talk to. I&rsquo;ve learnt that you need to spend a lot of time together and I didn&rsquo;t get to do that. My first marriage lasted only a few months and my second marriage too. You have to experience everything in life &ndash; falling in love, getting married, heart break and everything. That&rsquo;s when you&rsquo;ll have a complete life experience. I have matured with time and life experiences.Other than music, what do you want to do in the coming years?I want to help a lot of people. Do as much good as possible so that it stays forever. I&rsquo;d like to set up an NGO which focuses on care for the elderly, those with special needs and orphans. This is my dream.