Stars comment on nude pics Stars comment on nude pics 
							
								&nbsp;The FBI is probing leaked photos of naked celebrities that began popping up online over the weekend, causing some of Hollywood’s top stars to speak out about the explicit pics. Many stars allegedly featured in the photos — like Aubrey Plaza — have opted to stay mum about the authenticity of the pics, but some celebs just couldn’t resist commenting. So who is saying what about the nude photo leak?Kate Upton
Supermodel Upton admitted that the pics of her were authentic and her rep told TMZ, “This is obviously an outrageous violation of our client Kate Upton's privacy. We intend to pursue anyone disseminating or duplicating these illegally obtained images to the fullest extent possible."Victoria Justice
The “Victorious” star said her pics were fakes, writing: “These so called nudes of me are FAKE people. Let me nip this in the bud right now. *pun intended*”Kirsten Dunst
Dunst kept fans guessing. While she didn’t admit that the pics were of her, she did imply it by tweeting “Thanks iCloud” – the service that was reportedly hacked to cause the leak.Jennifer Lawrence
JLaw’s rep confirmed the pictures were real and stated, “The authorities have been contacted and will prosecute anyone who posts the stolen photos of Jennifer Lawrence.”Mary Elizabeth Winstead
The horror movie actress took to Twitter to let out her anger. She confirmed the photos were of her. “To those of you looking at photos I took with my husband years ago in the privacy of our home, hope you feel great about yourselves,” she wrote. “Knowing those photos were deleted long ago, I can only imagine the creepy effort that went into this. Feeling for everyone who got hacked.”McKayla Maroney
The Olympic gymnast said the photos of her were definitely fakes. She tweeted, “the fake photos of me are crazy!! was trying to rise above it all, and not give ‘the creator’ the time of day…” She added a photo of Jesus to the post with the caption “You sir, need Jesus.” She later thanked her fans for believing her, writing, “shout out to my fans for defending me all day long.. even when things got weird u stood by me. and that meant the world.”Ariana Grande
The former Nickelodeon star was adamant that the photos of her were fake, and took advantage of the free publicity to promote her concert tour: “to every1 going on about my "nudes" &#38; my "m&#38;g prices" neither are real! my lil ass is a lot cuter than that lmao &#38; tour details r comin soon”