Could 2015 Finally Be the Wii U's Year? Could 2015 Finally Be the Wii U's Year? A show attendee plays the &quot;Bayonetta 2&quot; video game on the Wii U at the Nintendo booth at the Electronic Entertainment Expo Image: Jae C. Hong/Associated Press

Let's face it, it's been a tough two years for the Wii U. But fans of the console may finally be rewarded this holiday and into 2015 — Nintendo confirmed in a tweet Monday that some of its biggest franchises would come to Wii U in 2015.  
The console's first year was marked with very few game releases. Die-hard fans who purchased the console at launch were rewarded with whole stretches of time with no new games. The following year was better, with standout hits like Super Mario 3D World and Mario Kart 8, but still didn't necessarily offer a wide enough lineup of titles. 

While a new Legend of Zelda title was confirmed at E3, this is the first time the new Star Fox has been pegged for the same year.

#HyruleWarriors kicks off a steady stream of new #WiiU games through 2015. What game are you most excited about? pic.twitter.com/ZiFxxp2NI9
— Nintendo of America (@NintendoAmerica) September 1, 2014

That tweet also confirms that Splatoon, NIntendo's take on a multiplayer shooter, and Mario Maker, a Mario level creation game, are coming out in the first half of 2015. In addition, two games being developed by Nintendo director Shigeru Miyamoto, Project Guard and Project Giant Robot, are also due out next year, along with new titles starring Yoshi and Kirby.
Of course, most of the impressive, most-anticipated games on that list don't have any firm release dates. That's fine for games that may not come out for a year, like the new Zelda, but it's a little more dodgy for those coming out in the next two to six months. Fan-favorite action-adventure sequel Bayonetta 2 doesn't even have a firm release date, and that's coming out in October. Most concerning is the missing release date for Super Smash Bros. for Wii U, the title Nintendo is hanging its hat on this holiday. 
If any of these titles slip too far past these release windows, the Wii U will suffer. The console has only sold 6.68 million units since its launch in Nov. 2012. (The PlayStation 4 has already sold 10 million consoles since its November 2013 launch, and the successful Wii sold nearly 20 million units from its November 2006 launch to the end of the following year.) 
The Wii U could still have a revival, similar to that of the handheld 3DS, if new, interesting games are released consistently enough for fans.