CeeLo Green's Rape Tweets Spark Backlash: 'Disgusting Piece of Trash' CeeLo Green's Rape Tweets Spark Backlash: 'Disgusting Piece of Trash' Ceelo Green performs during the Beer Fest on Aug. 13 in Belgrade, Serbia. Image: Srdjan Stevanovic/Getty Images

After pleading no contest to felony drug charges on Friday for sneaking ecstasy into a woman's drink in 2012, CeeLo Green posted several controversial tweets. 
His comments, which were replies to other Twitter users, referenced rape ("where is your plausible proof anyone was raped") and discussed consensual sex (""if someone is passed out they're not even WITH you consciously! so WITH implies consent").

The singer's tweets have since been deleted, and his account was temporarily deactivated, but people took screenshots before they were removed. 

Here, @CeeLoGreen puts the onus on rape victims to prove they were raped, describes women as objects, like a house. pic.twitter.com/IIf8A4vr3C
— Grumpy &amp; Lumpy (@omgLSP) August 31, 2014

Born Thomas DeCarlo Callaway, Green, 40, had faced a rape charge related to the alleged 2012 ecstasy incident in Los Angeles. That charge, however, was thrown out on the grounds of inadequate evidence. 
His tweets resulted in intense backlash from other Twitter users.

Thank god noted feminist scholar Ceelo Green is here to explain rape to the women of the world!
— Marlena Bittner (@lenabitts) September 2, 2014


.@CeeLoGreen You're having one of those "half rape vs full rape" semantics contests and it needs to stop. Seek help.
— Robin (@caulkthewagon) August 31, 2014


CeeLo Green tweets rape only counts if the victim is conscious, yet this disgusting falsity will inevitably be blanketed by his celebrity.
— Natalie Johnson (@nataliejohnsonn) September 2, 2014


@CeeLoGreen is a disgusting piece of trash. If you disagree you can just unfollow me. Rape is rape no matter what your conscious level is.
— Nicholas Modglin (@nickminmodge) September 2, 2014


CeeLo green is on the absolute blacklist. Never play his music around me ever again. What he said is beyond disgusting.
— RW (@r_wIIILson) September 2, 2014

Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.