Jill Duggar Opens Up About Morning Sickness, Cravings Jill Duggar Opens Up About Morning Sickness, Cravings 
Jill and Derick Dillard were elated to learn that they were expecting their first child. However, the pregnancy hasn't been the easiest.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                The Duggars Celebrate Mother's Day
                                                                
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
"I've been having a lot of morning sickness. They should call it 'pregnancy sickness' because it's all day, but I'm feeling good today!" shet old ABC News last week. "I'm thanking God for this little life and the good signs. It's well worth it."

The couple was married in June, just a few months after they announced their engagement. They revealed the pregnancy last month, and since then, the "19 Kids & Counting" star, 21, has been doted on by her husband, who makes sure to keep a "pregnancy bag" on hand at all times, packed with foods she might want.

The Sweet Nickname Jill Duggar Dillard Has For Her Unborn Baby

'19 Kids and Counting': How the Duggar Family Reacted to Jill Dillard's Pregnancy

"[Like my mother, I crave] things that are more sour to settle stomach: dill pickles, lemon with salt or lemon juice with water or salt," she said, adding that she keeps nuts on-hand at all times. "I like cold things [too]. I don't like a lot of hot meals right now but I do try to get protein every two hours."

Meanwhile, the newlyweds are busy brainstorming names for boys, girls and, just in case, twins! (Yes, they'll reveal the baby's gender on an episode of their TLC reality TV show, which premieres tonight at 9 p.m. ET).

"We're still pretty early right now but we’re thinking we may not do a letter theme," the mom-to-be revealed. "Maybe we'll do some other kind of theme!"

One thing she does know for sure: She'd like to have a natural birth at home, with the help of a midwife.

"I feel like it will be way more relaxing... and having the baby at home with a midwife provides more of that personal care," she said, adding that she lives down the street from a hospital, should she need to get there in a hurry. "It’s more intimate for the couple as well, getting to be in your own environment."
