HBO Miniseries ‘Show Me A Hero’ Adds Cast HBO Miniseries ‘Show Me A Hero’ Adds Cast Latanya Richardson Jackson, Natalie Paul, Clarke Peters and Daniel Stern have joined the growing cast of HBO&rsquo;s miniseries Show Me A Hero from The Wire co-creator David Simon. Based on the nonfiction book by Lisa Belkin, the six-hour mini stars Oscar Isaac as Nick Wasicsko, the youngest big-city mayor in the nation, who finds himself thrust into the center of a racial controversy when a federal court orders him to build a small number of low-income housing units in the white neighborhoods of his town, Yonkers, NY. His attempt to do so tears the city apart, paralyzes the municipal government and, ultimately, destroys his political future. Richardson Jackson, repped by Paradigm and Framework, will play Norma O&rsquo;Neal, the stoic, hardworking home health aide who has struggled to raise a family in Yonkers&rsquo; worst projects, even as her own health fails her. Paul, repped by Randi Ross of Phoenix Artists, will play Doreen Henderson, a young woman born in Yonkers public housing but raised in the suburbs, is drawn back to the projects, where her life spirals out of control. Peters plays Robert Mayhawk, the consultant hired to help educate tenants bound for the townhouses about life in their new neighborhood. Stern will play Oscar Newman, a sometimes-abrasive urban planner who developed a unique plan for public housing in Yonkers, earning the enmity of the opponents. They join previously cast Catherine Keener, James Belushi, Terry Kinney, Michael Stahl-David, Winona Ryder, Alfred Molina, and Jon Bernthal. Richardson Jackson received a Tony nomination for A Raisin In The Sun and was recently cast in an arc on Blue Bloods. Paul just wrapped a recurring on Boardwalk Empire. Peters&rsquo; TV credits include The Wire, Treme and Person Of Interest. His film work includes Notting Hill and Marley &amp; Me. Stern&rsquo;s film credits include Home Alone, Home Alone 2 and City Slickers. TV credits include Manhattan, Dilbert and The Wonder Years.
					
						Related
						MMA Pastor Doc 'Fight Church' Inks Distribution, Morgan Spurlock TV Deal
						
					
				