Toronto Roundup: ‘Sunshine Superman’, ‘Match’ & ‘The Daughter’ Sales Deals, More Toronto Roundup: ‘Sunshine Superman’, ‘Match’ & ‘The Daughter’ Sales Deals, More Refresh for latest&hellip;
					
						Related
						Toronto Finalizes Lineup With Bill Murray's 'St. Vincent', Roger Waters Docu, James Franco Aboard
						
					
				Universal Pictures International and Submarine Entertainment have picked up sales right to Sunshine Superman, the feature documentary about the origins of BASE jumping directed and produced by Marah Strauch and Eric Bruggemann. It premieres Thursday on the opening day of the Toronto Film Festival. Alex Gibney, Josh Braun and Dan Braun of Submarine, Samantha Horley of The Salt Company and Phil Hunt and Compton Ross of Head Gear Films executive produced. Salt brokered the deal with UPIE, which will distribute internationally; Submarine will handle North American rights.Writer-director Stephen Belber&rsquo;s comedic drama Match has been acquired by Premiere Entertainment Group, which will handle foreign sales beginning this week in Toronto. Carla Gugino and Matthew Lillard star as&nbsp;a Seattle couple who travel to New York to interview a beloved but somewhat hermitic ballet instructor (Patrick Stewart), and during the course of the talk the true motive behind the visit begins to emerge.&nbsp;David Permut, Matt Ratner and Rick Rosenthal produced, and&nbsp;David P. Beitchman, Adam Brawer, Lawrence M. Kopelkin, Chris Mangano, and Nick Morton exec produced. ICM Partners, which reps Belber, repped the filmmakers in the deal.Mongrel International and Mongrel Media have acquired international and Canadian rights to The Daughter, a feature film by Australian theatre director Simon Stone based on his stage adaptation of Henrik Ibsen&rsquo;s The Wild Duck. Geoffrey Rush, Ewen Leslie, Paul Schneider, Miranda Otto, Anna Torv, Odessa Young and Sam Neill will star, and The Piano&lsquo;s Jan Chapman and Nicole O&rsquo;Donohue will produce. Principal photography kicks off September 12.Focus World has acquired U.S. rights to David Cronenberg&rsquo;s Maps To The Stars, the Cannes Film Festival pic that won Julianne Moore the Best Actress award there this year.&nbsp;Mia Wasikowska, Olivia Williams, Evan Bird, Sarah Gadon, John Cusack, and Robert Pattinson also star in the pic about society&rsquo;s obsession with celebrity. It next screens in Toronto and the New York film festivals and Focus World plans an early 2015 theatrical release.