Netflix Renews ‘Hemlock Grove’ For Third And Final Season Netflix Renews ‘Hemlock Grove’ For Third And Final Season Netflix has renewed its original series Hemlock Grove for a 10-episode third season to be released in 2015 but that will be the Gothic thriller drama&rsquo;s final chapter. Charles H. (Chic) Eglee, who joined as showrunner in Season 2, will return to the show based on Brian McGreevy&rsquo;s novel, from Gaumont International Television and executive producer Eli Roth. &ldquo;We are sograteful to the fans of Hemlock Grove who have championed the series so intensely over two seasons,&rdquo; said Roth. &ldquo;We are looking forward to taking the last and final season into some dark and unexpected places, and to giving viewers the killer finale you&rsquo;d come to expect from Hemlock Grove.&rdquo;
					
						Related
						Cee Lo Green's 'The Good Life' Gets Ax From TBS
						
					
				Hemlock Grove had a strong launch in June 2013, drawing more viewers in its opening weekend than Netflix&rsquo;s flagship drama House of Cards and scoring very well with young audiences. The second season of Hemlock Grove premiered this past July. In it, the town of Hemlock Grove continued to come to grips with the shocking massacre incurred by one of its deadliest creatures. Roman (Bill Skarsg&aring;rd) and Peter (Landon Liboiron) faced new responsibilities and the realities that come with adulthood. Roman struggled with his relationship with his mother (Famke Janssen) as he wrestled with his unwanted Upir birthright and the disappearance of his sister, Shelley (Madeleine Martin). Peter moved in with Destiny (Kaniehtiio Horn) and was forced to get a job after his mother was sent away. Meanwhile, in search of a new life, newcomer Miranda Cates (Madeline Brewer), embarked on Hemlock Grove with an unknowingly profound effect on Peter and Roman. And Norman (Dougray Scott), still reeling from the loss of his family, faced the harsh truth about those he loved. Hemlock Grove marked the first foray into television by horror master Eli Roth (Hostel). It was developed by Brian McGreevy &amp; Lee Shipman and is executive produced by Roth, Eglee, McGreevy &amp; Shipman, Eric Newman and Michael Connolly.