Eamonn McCormack/Getty ImagesFirst Photos From Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's Wedding Eamonn McCormack/Getty ImagesFirst Photos From Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's Wedding 
It was revealed last week that Angelina Jolie, 39, and Brad Pitt, 50, had secretly wed in France. Now the first pictures are here for everyone to see!

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Secret Wedding Details
                                                                
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
People magazine has a stunning shot of Jolie's beautiful Versace white, sleek gown the Oscar winner wore for her Aug. 23 ceremony at Château Miraval.

Read: All the Details: Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Are Married

Related: Inside the 'Beautiful' Estate Where Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie Got Married in France
 People
 

"It was important to us that the day was relaxed and full of laughter," the couple told the magazine. "It was such a special day to share with our children and a very happy time for our family."

And share with their six children -- Maddox, 13, and Pax, 10, Zahara, 9, Vivienne, 6, Shiloh, 8, and Knox, 6 -- is exactly what the iconic couple did.

As previously reported, Maddox and Pax walked Jolie down the aisle, while Zahara and Viv were flower girls, and Shiloh and Knox were ring bearers.

Jolie's veil was a dedication to her children, as well. Versace tailor Luigi Massi made sure to sew images from her kids' drawings into the beautiful adornment, which she wore over that gorgeous gown.

"Luigi is like family to me and I couldn't imagine anyone else making this dress," Jolie added. "He knows and cares for the children and it was great fun putting it together."
 HELLO! magazine
 

Finally, the man who designed the actress's engagement ring, Robert Procop, also designed the wedding bands.

Hello! magazine also had pictures from the wedding, including Pitt and Jolie enjoying a kiss on their big day and a really great shot of that heartfelt veil with sweet pictures from the children.