NFL Football Is Coming: The Good, the Bad and the Comedy NFL Football Is Coming: The Good, the Bad and the Comedy From left to right: Aaron Rodgers, Colin Kaepernick, Richard Sherman and Peyton Manning all have their eyes on Super Bowl XLIX.Image: Tom Gannam/Gail Burton/Marcio Jose Sanchez/Joe Mahoney/Associated Press

After an image-bruising off-season marked by a huge lawsuit settlement and disciplinary missteps, the NFL's billion-dollar beast comes roaring back to life, bringing you the semi-controlled violence that makes a brutal game the United States' favorite sporting spectacle. 
In other words, America: ARE YOU READY FOR SOME FOOTBALL? 

The 2014 NFL season finally kicks off Thursday, Sept. 4, when the Green Bay Packers visit the Seattle Seahawks for a rematch of one of the most bizarre endings in NFL history. Then comes all the football you can handle, right up until Super Bowl XLIX on Feb. 1. 
We've broken the NFL's entire 32-team field into four castes, from the train-wrecks to the legitimate Super Bowl hopefuls. From storylines to star players, anecdotes to fun facts, our NFL preview contains all you need to hold your own around the office watercooler this football season. 
The LOL Division: Your bottom 8
To borrow from Dave Chappelle's legendary player-hating character Silky Johnson: These teams look bombed-out and depleted. 

The Raiders named rookie Derek Carr their starting quarterback on Monday night. Image: Marcio Jose Sanchez/Associated PressWe start our LOL-fest in Oakland, where the Raiders were recently selected in a player poll as the least-desirable team to play for in the entire NFL. They continue to play in America's most wretched stadium (hello, dirt infield) and their owner is putting out the vibe to other cities for a possible relocation. But they still have the league's best uniforms. In other words, pretty much business as usual in the East Bay. Darren McFadden should be good for a few awesome plays though, and Maurice Jones-Drew has returned home to see how much he has left in the tank. 
Down in Jacksonville, the Jaguars appear on the path to respectability but are still a couple of years away. Even just a paltry five wins this season would have to be considered a success. But that's much better than the situation in Buffalo, judging by the Bills' training camp, where fights were almost as common as touchdown drives, by the sound of things. Coach Doug Marrone seems to be handling the situation calmly though, reportedly looking for a fix by bellowing at his players to simply "Get your shit right!" He also apparently got into a heated exchange with defensive end Jerry Hughes about the fighting. Then there was this little nugget featuring Bills center Eric Wood. 

Things going well at Bills practice. pic.twitter.com/ssdHLcKfQS
— Kevin Clark (@KevinClarkWSJ) August 20, 2014

Good times! 
The Browns should be entertaining simply for the ongoing circus surrounding bird-flipping backup quarterback Johnny Clipboard — né Johnny Football, né Johnny Manziel. But expecting on-field results from Cleveland will likely again prove a romantic notion, especially with star receiver Josh Gordon serving a one-year suspension for smoking some pot. 
 
Washington owner Dan Snyder continues to stubbornly cling to a racist team nickname — but at least he's got Sarah Palin backing him up now! The jury's still out on what Robert Griffin III can offer in his return from an injury-plagued 2013 season. Washington is one team that could put it together to be semi-decent, but that seems unlikely. 
Meanwhile, St. Louis' thin hopes in a brutal NFC West evaporated when brittle quarterback Sam Bradford suffered a season-ending knee injury in the pre-season. Houston's fearsome pairing of Jadeveon Clowney and J. J. Watt will terrorize opposing quarterbacks, but their own signal-caller spot needs an answer and Ryan Fitzpatrick sure ain't it. Can Jake Locker and new coach Ken Whisenhunt lift the Tennessee Titans above the NFL's bottom 25th percentile? It's conceivable, but don't get your hopes up. 
The Meh Division: Wallow in thy mediocrity
Welcome to no-fan's-land, home to teams that aren't sucky enough be a spectacle but aren't decent enough to have any real hope. Let's keep this section brief. 

Adrian Peterson, as usual, could use a little more help in Minnesota. Image: Charlie Neibergall/Associated PressYet again in Minnesota, the great Adrian Peterson finds himself with a subpar quarterback situation. He'll be leaned upon heavily to carry the Vikings offense like a one-legged man trying to drag his body up a hill. Teddy Bridgewater is an intriguing rookie, but mediocre vet Matt Cassel won the starting gig. 
In Kansas City, Alex Smith is back to lead the Chiefs' for a second year after being consciously uncoupled from by the 49ers. A return to the playoffs isn't out of the question, but doesn't seem all that likely either. The Cowboys' Dez Bryant is a burgeoning superstar, but our national obsession with the blunders of Dallas quarterback Tony Romo will gain plenty more fodder this season. Meanwhile, the Lovie Smith era is set to begin in Tampa Bay — with onetime quarterback-guru Jeff Tedford as offensive coordinator — but Buccaneers fans might be better off spending their Sunday afternoons at the beach. 

Is it playoffs or peace out for Jets coach Rex Ryan? Image: Frank Franklin II/Associated PressThe Dolphins, Giants and Jets all have more reason for optimism, albeit somewhat deluded optimism, than anyone we've mentioned so far. Ryan Tannehill was sacked a league-high 58 times (almost four per game!) for Miami last year, so that's obviously got to change — both for the team's prospects and Tannehill's hopes of living a long and happy life. 
The Jets closed last season strong, but you've got to wonder how much longer the Rex Ryan show can continue in New York without breaking the team's postseason drought. Geno Smith is the key, but last year's dreadful touchdown-to-interception ratio (12 scores versus 21 picks) needs to improve. Across town, the Giants added some solid pieces over the off-season. But more notably, Eli Manning's notorious derp face has finally been immortalized in the latest Madden game. 

Madden 15 Has The 'Manning Face' http://t.co/SXqhb3Wz0C pic.twitter.com/SB5bYN3xWj
— TDdaily (@TDdaily) August 28, 2014

The Maybe Division: In the playoff picture, baby!
Finally! The upbeat portion of this preview. In San Diego, receiver Keenan Allen might be ready to make The Leap to bonafide stardom in his second year with the Chargers, which would be a boon for longtime QB Phillip Rivers. With some help from the defense, Rivers and company could easily find themselves back in the playoffs for a second straight year after missing out the previous three. 
Atlanta's Matt Ryan is also a top-flight quarterback looking to guide a team lacking in other areas to the playoffs. His receiving corps, led by the affable Roddy White and the ethereal Julio Jones, might be the best in the league. But holes on defense and both lines mean the Falcons might actually belong down in our Meh Division. Time will tell — but did we mention Julio Jones is amazing? Just look what he can do.
 
The Bengals are an all-around solid unit whose success this season comes down to whether or not quarterback Andy Dalton can perform like he needs to — no sure thing. Cincinnati does not play in a particularly stacked division, which it actually won last year, but making the playoffs this go-round is still an iffy proposition. Another quarterback with all eyes on him: Cam Newton of the Carolina Panthers. He'll likely continue his ascent into the upper echelon this year — as well as endure a level of hyper-scrutinization that may outpace anyone in the league. A suspect offensive line spells trouble, however. 
Chicago's stereotypically known for its bruising style of play and aggressive defense. But even with the addition of big Jared Allen, that defense will be a big problem this year. Whether Jay Cutler and Alshon Jeffery can connect on enough long bombs to bail out the Bears' D looks doubtful, but not hopeless. 
The Bears will battle with their division-rival Lions for second place in the NFC North (behind the Packers) and a possible Wild Card playoff berth. Detroit, too, relies on its offense, but possesses a much fuller arsenal. With Golden Tate, Reggie Bush and Calvin "Megatron" Johnson, quarterback Matthew Stafford has no shortage of weapons to turn to. But he should — and will — look to the incomparable Johnson most of all. 
 
Pity the poor Arizona Cardinals, a fine football team stuck in a brutal NFC West division. Carson Palmer is something of a question mark at quarterback, but has a stellar receiving corps and there's a lot to like on the roster as a whole. Escaping that murderous division will be a challenge, but if the 49ers falter behind Seattle, Arizona will be more than ready to move up the standings. 
While our aforementioned Bengals aren't out of the AFC North picture, it's the Baltimore Ravens and Pittsburgh Steelers who look like the real contenders there. With Steve Smith and Torrey Smith — as well as Ray Rice, once he finishes that preposterously short two-game suspension — at Joe Flacco's disposal, the Ravens will be tough.
Pittsburgh boasts an improved defense and Ben Rothlisberger at quarterback. If their two best running backs can stop getting busted for smoking weed together, the Steelers should take the division. It looks like the Steelers have Baltimore beat on team, shall we say, chemistry as well as talent. 

Steelers unveil their Cheech &amp; Chong backfield!
— Ed Bouchette (@EdBouchette) August 21, 2014

Former University of Oregon coach and offensive mad scientist Chip Kelly keeps loading his Philadelphia Eagles roster with speedy players from the Pac-12. Benefitting from playing in the dreadful NFC East, the Eagles are a near-lock to make the playoffs, though it's a long shot they do much once they get there. 
Side note: This Vine from training camp apparently shows running-back LeSean McCoy doing a sit-up then tossing a 45-pound weight like a freaking frisbee. It's pretty amazing. Is it real? You be the judge; but either way, a reminder that NFL players are really, really strong. 
 
If the Colts' offensive line can actually protect Andrew Luck, Indianapolis might belong in our next group instead of this one. That, however, is a big question mark. Luck is already everything he was billed to be out of Stanford, but might still be a couple years away from reaching his first Super Bowl. No doubt he'll get there, though. 
The Big-Boy Division: Your Super Bowl contenders
You play to win the game, in the immortal words of Herm Edwards. More specifically, though, you play NFL football to put Super Bowl rings on your bent and broken fingers. 
One of these six teams will take top honors this season. 
 
Seattle hoisted the Lombardi Trophy last year behind Russell Wilson's quarterbacking brilliance, Pete Carroll's chipper leadership, Richard Sherman's lockdown defense and Marshawn Lynch's all-around beastliness. 
The Seahawks are relatively young, extremely talented and the vibes surrounding the squad seem all good up in the Pacific Northwest. Seattle also adds a healthy Percy Harvin this season, is still the NFL's best team on paper and has to be considered the early Super Bowl XLIX favorite. You don't need to be legally baked to be thinking "dynasty" these days in Seattle; it's a very realistic scenario. But NFL teams have only won back-to-back Super Bowls eight times in history, proving just how hard it is to do — and the 'Hawks have plenty of quality squads coming after their cookies. 

Marshawn Lynch brought a ski-mask, bottle of champagne and huge drum to the Seahawks' Super Bowl victory parade in February, because Marshawn Lynch. Image: John Froschauer/Associated PressTwo years ago when 49ers coach Jim Harbaugh would bellow to his players, "Who's got it better than us?!?" and they would heartily reply, "Noooo-body!" it seemed a convincing argument. But the last several months have been a cause for concern in San Francisco. 
The 49ers unveiled their gleaming new $1.27 million stadium on August 17 for a pre-season matchup against the Broncos. The 49ers were drubbed 34-0, fans whined about extreme heat and lack of shade, one fan died after collapsing in the stands and it was revealed that apparently $1.3 billion these days buys you a fancy new stadium but not a field that actually works. Groundsmen have since had to rip up the playing surface — not once, but twice — because it's not of high enough quality for NFL football. 
Meanwhile, the Niners' first-string offense couldn't score one touchdown in three pre-season games. Training camp was marked by a massive injury to a key defensive lineman, while an equally important offensive lineman decided to hold-out for a new contract. 
All-world pass-rusher Aldon Smith will have to sit out the season's first nine games for violating the NFL's substance-abuse and personal-conduct policies in an impressive variety of ways, most notably by making a fake bomb threat at Los Angeles International Airport. 
If all that wasn't enough, negotiations between the Niners and star coach Harbaugh stalled this summer, an awkwardness that could hover over the season amid rumors of a front-office power struggle. 

Who's got it better than us? These days, a growing list of teams. Image: David J. Phillip/Associated PressColin Kaepernick can be downright electrifying and owns the league's most glorified abs, but still hasn't developed enough consistency to match the oceans of potential he so rousingly flashed while supplanting Alex Smith at quarterback in 2012. Make no mistake: This is still a very good team, but it's slipped some notches since the 49er faithful started dreaming of a new dynasty a few years back.  
Over in the AFC, the Broncos and Patriots look like your most serious Super Bowl contenders. New England added two stars in Darrelle Revis and Brandon Browner to its secondary, which should now be among the best in the league. Tom Brady's still got it at age 37, although the health of all-bro tight end Rob Gronkowski bears watching closely. 
And Denver? Yikes. The Broncos reached last year's Super Bowl only to get obliterated by Seattle, then went on a major shopping spree this off-season, adding significant pieces DeMarcus Ware, Aqib Talib and T.J. Ward on defense, plus Emmanuel Sanders on offense. Von Miller also returns from injury to shore up the defense. On offense, Peyton Manning does not age. He also seems to have found a new level of Old Guy Swag, if an $8,200 fine for talking smack in a pre-season game is any indication — something he deemed "money well spent," by the way. 
 
Rounding out our Big-Boy Division are the Saints and Packers, each looking to upend Seattle in the NFC. New Orleans may not have as many household names as some teams, but it also lacks any real holes. Add a stud rookie receiver for Drew Brees to throw to in Brandin Cooks plus one of the league's most distinct home-field advantages and you've got yourself a contender.  
Green Bay counters with the best player at the league's most important position in Aaron Rodgers. He's back from an injury-marred 2013 season to run a no-huddle offense that will have opposing defenses quaking in their boots. With running back Eddie Lacy now in the league's top tier and Rodgers hurling BBs all over the field, the Packers are set to put on an offensive orgy of historic proportions this season. Their goal is to run 75 plays per game, and that's downright scary. 

Watch out, NFL: Aaron Rodgers is back from injury and looks poised to do major damage for Green Bay. Image: Morry Gash/Associated PressLosing nose tackle B.J. Raji for the season to a biceps injury makes things tougher defensively, where the Packers have been weak of late, but new pickup Julius Peppers should help ease the burden up front. Still, if the offensive line can protect Rodgers enough to keep him healthy, Green Bay's ultra-fast offense should make up for defensive shortcomings. 
In the pocket or on the move, bearded or clean-shaven, Rodgers is the cream of the NFL crop. That's why, with something to prove after last year, we see him earning the NFL MVP award, leading Green Bay through a tough NFC, then taking down Peyton Manning and the Broncos in Super Bowl XLIX and to earn his second championship ring next Feb. 1. 
Fire up your fattest bratwursts and prepare to crack your finest beers, cheese-heads. The Lombardi Trophy is coming back to Titletown, USA. 
BONUS: 25 of YouTube's Funniest Sports Fails



Sports Fails







1. Golf Cart Fail

This runaway vehicle wreaked minor on-field havoc following a high school football championship in Texas last December. But a heroic bystander hopped aboard and put on the brakes.
No casualties occurred, and the clip immediately became Internet legend.











2. Penalty Kick Fail
Watch out for the ricochet, goalie! This kid gets it in the right in the chops.










3. Mascot on Rollerblades Fail
What happens when you put an inflatable dinosaur on rollerblades and ask it to skate down a flight of stairs? Amazingness, that's what.










4. Flopping Fail
In sports, to "flop" is to exaggerate the force of contact in hopes of drawing a favorable call from officials. But you've got to time it much, much better than this guy does.










5. Hockey Celebration Fail
Apparently, if you hug a member of the opposite team after scoring a goal in hockey, you will get punched in the face.










6. Innocent Bystander Fail
This kid is just in the wrong place at the wrong time...to the benefit of the rest of us.










7. Representing Your School Fail

College football mascots are supposed to represent their schools in a fun, positive light — which doesn't typically include picking fights. Here, the University of Oregon's duck slams the University of Houston's cougar.
Bonus points for the sick elbow drop, though.











8. Weightlifting Fail

Not saying we could successfully lift 432 pounds above our heads, but dang, that looks painful.
German weightlifter Matthias Steiner dropped this massive barbell on his neck during the London Olympics this summer, but escaped serious injury.











9. Trampoline Dunk Fail
Sometimes, when you fail, you actually win.










10. Hurdling Fail

Why jump over hurdles when you could just RUN STRAIGHT THROUGH THEM?
File under: Never, Ever Gets Old.











11. Paying Attention Fail
After what could best be described as an "optimistic" shot attempt in a game last season, NBA center JaVale McGee showed some nice hustle getting back on defense. Only problem? His team still had the ball.










12. Judgment Fail
But that wasn't McGee's only legendary moment. Here, he shows why it's not a good idea to try dunking from the free throw line mid-game.










13. Olympic Promo Fail

For some reason, London's Olympic promotions this summer involved hanging Mayor Boris Johnson on a zipline while waving a pair of tiny flags.
Then he got stuck halfway through and it was pretty much the best, funniest, awkwardest thing that could have happened.











14. Grand Slam Celebration Fail
Major Leaguer Kendry Morales broke his lower left leg while celebrating a game-winning grand slam in 2010. This edited video provides the before, during and after rundown.










15. Slam Dunk Fail
See? White guys can jump? It's just the landing that's the hard part.










16. High Dive Fail
The announcer here sums it up perfectly. She calls this attempt from the 1992 Olympics "an absolute failed dive."










17. Piggyback Ride Fail
What begins as an innocent enough piggyback ride atop a fuzzy mascot turns into a pretty epic collision — and YouTube gold.










18. Long Jump Fail
Dude! If you're gonna pump up the crowd like that, you can't just faceplant into the sand.










19. Touchdown Celebration Fail
When you think about it, is there any better way to celebrate a touchdown than by pegging an unsuspecting spectator in the face? Bonus points for originality, at least.










20. Pro Golfer Fail
You'd think a professional golfer could put the ball in the hole with less than 16 strokes. Kevin Na — and the rest of the world — found out otherwise on this par-four hole at the 2011 Valero Texas Open.










21. Head-First Slide Fail
Well, that's one way of doing it...right?










22. Time Management Fail

Tie game, clock winding down — it's always better to get one last attempt up than just let the game go into overtime. A full court desperation heave with a 11 seconds to go is never the way to do it, however.
This classic gaffe by the University of Connecticut's Roscoe Smith came during a matchup of top teams in 2011.











23. Boogie Boarding Fail
Its veracity may be suspect, but this 2008 YouTube classic has more than 12.7 million views, despite a mind-numbing soundtrack.










24. Sportsmanship Fail

The summer of 2011 was a tough time for NBA star LeBron James. It was full of lingering ill-will for his decision to the leave the Cleveland Cavaliers and snarky schadenfreude over his initial failure to win a championship with the Miami Heat.
So it makes perfect sense that he'd let off some steam by viciously dunking on a tiny kid at summer camp, right? That's what happens at the 0:43 mark of this video.











25. Standing on a Basketball Hoop Fail
We're not quite sure why this mascot thought standing on top of a basketball rim was a good idea.




