Ted Gold Joins Spike TV As Head Of Scripted Series Ted Gold Joins Spike TV As Head Of Scripted Series As Spike TV is re-entering scripted series, the network has brought in veteran TV executive/producer Ted Gold to guide the efforts. Gold has been named to the newly created position of SVP, Scripted Original Series, Spike TV. He will&nbsp; lead a newly-created scripted development team and will oversee all scripted programming, reporting to Sharon Levy, EVP, Original Series. VP Original Series Justin Lacob, who has overseen the development and production of Spike&rsquo;s highest rated original series, the unscripted Bar Rescue, will now be a member of the network&rsquo;s scripted team, reporting to Gold. He will continue to work on non-scripted projects as well, overseen by Chris Rantamaki, SVP, Original Series. &ldquo;Ted&rsquo;s eye for great material, strong relationships and competitive tenacity, makes him perfectly suited to lead our new scripted development team,&rdquo; said Levy.
					
						Related
						Russell Crowe-Ryan Gosling Pic 'The Nice Guys' Gets Summer 2016 Release Date
						
					
				Spike TV is making a return to scripted programming with its first event series in seven years, Tut, set to debut in 2015. The network has a number of scripted projects in the works &mdash; both on the event and drama series front &mdash; including The Crusaders from Pierce Brosnan&rsquo;s Irish DreamTime, Mark Sennet Entertainment, Michael Finch and David Franzoni; The Chairman, based on the Stephen Frey best-seller; War At The Shore based on Richard D. &ldquo;Skip&rdquo; Bronson&rsquo;s book; and Basket Case by author and journalist Carl Hiaasen.Gold previously served as President of Television and Executive Producer at Parkes +Macdonald, under the company&rsquo;s overall deal at NBCUniversal, where he developed projects for HBO, Showtime, Amazon, ABC, USA, and NBC and produced the Neil Cross/John Malkovich series, Crossbones for NBC. Prior to that, Gold was Head of Television for Deuce Three Productions/CBS TV Studios where he spearheaded all television business and development for Curtis Hanson. Gold also served as SVP, Series Development at Fox where he oversaw drama development, including Bones, Prison Break, and Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles. Gold&rsquo;s previous stints in television include serving as SVP, Series Development for Spelling Television; VP, Creative Affairs, Alliance/Atlantis; and Director of Development, Drama &amp; Longform for New World Entertainment.&nbsp;