Here's what Meherbaan, Tu Meri tell us about Hrithik-Katrina starrer Bang Bang Here's what Meherbaan, Tu Meri tell us about Hrithik-Katrina starrer Bang Bang 
					Bollywood is well know for its attempts at copying Hollywood blockbuster movies, their scenes, plots and dialogues. However, Hindi filmmaker Siddharth Anand is perhaps the first to attempt remaking a flop Hollywood action comedy, starring Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz, called Day and Knight. Yes, Bang Bang. The Bollywood version of the film, as we all know by now,&nbsp; stars&nbsp; Katrina Kaif and Hrithik Roshan in the lead.While we still have to wait a month before Bang Bang hits the theater on 2 October, the trailer of the film as well as the two songs Meherbaan and Tu Meri have already been teased on television and Youtube and here's what they tell us about the film:1. The latest song Meherbaan, that was released on Wednesday, has been predominantly shot at the marvellous Santorini in Greece. Also watch out for Katrina's legs which helped YouTube garner a many likes. In fact in the first ten seconds of the trailer, when Hrithik is taking a tour on the city's rooftops and cars are being blown up, there is a fleeting shot of her legs in a printed mini. In Meherbaan however, we see much more than just a glimpse. At one point in the song with Hrithik frolicking in the swimming pool, audience is treated with Katrina's long, flawless tanned legs. However, if you can see beyond the legs, you would also notice that the song has been filmed beautifully in the picturesque Greece.Take a look at it here:2.&nbsp; If the songs and the trailer are any indication, Hrithik Roshan is a man of many talents. The trailer tells us that Roshan can count backwards while grunting at the same time. He can remain suspended in mid-air like Spider-man, without ever being bitten by a spider. And more than anything else, he is the only human being with a bronze skin tone. Well, either that or half the money of Fox Star has gone after buying tanning lotions for the actor. We are guessing that during his spy training sessions, he had also received an advance training of music and dance, because well you know, spies often have to dance and sing. Don't believe us? Check out Roshan's spy character grooving on the dance floor:3.&nbsp;Bang Bang, in keeping with the age old tradition of Bollywood&nbsp; has not bothered with logic. Hence Katrina's character, who is supposedly kidnapped by the intel agents, has so many wardrobe changes that can make all five Kardashian-Jenner girls pea green with envy and surprisingly enough she also sports&nbsp; catastrophe-defying good hair. In the trailer,&nbsp; Katrina falls on the floor from a height, hair behaves itself. Katrina gets thrown around a car getting hammered with bullets, but hair behaves itself. Katrina, does a somersault on a bike and fires a gun... hair? Still looks ramp-ready. Ditto for Hrithik. He hangs mid-air, jumps off cliffs, drives cars, shoots people and rolls on grime &mdash; but tchah. Hrithik's hair is the real hero here, holding it's own against the brutal forces of nature.4. There are so many bullets flying in the trailer itself that you would think Roshan plays the role of a mass assassin and not a spy. If a spy's job entails staying under cover and getting information, Roshan's character does very poorly.&nbsp;However, it cannot be entirely blamed on him or the maker of Bang Bang, because in the original film too Cruise did many things in the name of sleuthing like blowing up cars in the middle of busy streets and crash landing jets in fields.5.This is a film for the desi car misanthrope. Many, and supremely gorgeous cars are driven around maniacally and eventually blown up. Rohit Shetty's legacy of filmy destruction just got another endorsement.