Sofia Vergara Says Joe Manganiello Is "Too Hot," "Too Sexy" for Emmys 2014 Red Carpet

He's too sexy for this show! Sofia Vergara proclaimed on the 2014 Emmy Awards red carpet Monday, Aug. 25, what the world has already known about her boyfriend Joe Manganiello. The Modern Family actress gushed about her sexy beau and explained why he didn't accompany her to the star-studded event in L.A.
PHOTOS: Emmys 2014 red carpet -- who wore what!
"He's really hot," Vergara, 42, noted of the True Blood hunk, 37. "That's why I didn't bring him. He's too hot, too tall, he takes a lot of space. I told him, 'Please don't come.' He's too sexy!"
E! hostess Giuliana Rancic asked the Colombian beauty what makes Manganiello so attractive, aside from his self-evident good looks. "He's a really funny guy, which is very important for me," Vergara said, while insisting: "I really thought that [he] was too hot for the red carpet!"
PHOTOS: Sofia's smokin' hot red carpet looks
Without her man by her side, Vergara still (of course!) fired up the Emmys red carpet in a form-fitting Roberto Cavalli gown. "I'm very happy, very excited to be here today," she said, bragging about her ABC sitcom. "It's like our fifth nomination."
PHOTOS: Joe Manganiello's hottest moments
The new couple, though, made a scorching hot appearance together at the CAA's pre-Emmys party in Beverly Hills this past weekend. "Sofia looked smitten!" an eyewitness told Us Weekly of the funny lady. According to the observer, the couple cozied up to each other and locked lips in the middle of the celeb-filled restaurant, Bouchon Bistro.
PHOTOS: Celebrity splits of 2014
Us Weekly exclusively revealed that the stars were dating in early July, after Vergara called off her engagement to Nick Loeb in late May.
¡°You know, I¡¯m just having a great time,¡± she told Extra of her relationship with Manganiello on Aug. 11. ¡°It¡¯s a special time in my life, and I¡¯m trying not to think too much about it. It¡¯s something very new, so we will see what happens.¡±