Emmys Beauty: Get Natalie Dormer's Smoky Eye

¡°Sometimes you get a dress that inspires you to do a certain look,¡± says celebrity makeup artist Jake Bailey, who created Game of Thrones beauty Natalie Dormer¡¯s look for the Emmys on Monday night (and who also was responsible for Katy Perry at the VMAs on Sunday). ¡°But this was more like deductive reasoning. It just looked best balanced.¡±

Because Dormer¡¯s two-tone, orangey-red and black dress was so colorful on top, Bailey wanted to balance it out by using black on the eye and keeping the actress' lips relatively neutral. ¡°My inspiration was mainly her face &mdash she has such incredible bone structure and the shape and color of her eyes is just extraordinary,¡±he says.

Bailey opted to use warm brown shades &mdash along with black &mdash to create rich smoky eyes, because those hues really make blue eyes pop. He used Urban Decay 24/7 Liner in Perversion on the top lash line, and then a warm shimmery brown shadow from Lancome called Pose all over her lids, in the crease and out toward her temple. On the bottom lash line he applied and blended Urban Decay 24/7 Liner in Smog, a warm brown. A pair of mink lashes from Velour (called ¡°Are Those Real?¡±) and a coat of Urban Decay Perversion Mascara finished things off.

Bailey perfected Dormer¡¯s ¡°really nice¡± skin by dotting on a really small amount of Estee Lauder Double Wear foundation in Creamy Vanilla and buffing it with a kabuki brush. He created a custom blush by mixing equal parts Chanel Cream Blush in Affinite with NARS Illuminator in Copacabana. ¡°The combination of the beautiful color and the Illuminator really made for a fresh, glowy blush,¡± he says.¡± He also dusted CoverGirl Clean Powder in Ivory all over her face, and used NARS Contour Blush in Olympia to contour under Dormer's cheekbones.

Finally, Bailey lined her lips in Urban Decay 4/7 Liner in Naked &mdash a soft nude, and then applied a touch of L¡¯Oreal Colour Caress Wet Shine Stain in Pink Perseverence. ¡°I didn¡¯t want to do a strong lip,¡±he says, ¡°because it¡¯s too much color up top. A nude lip doesn¡¯t compete.¡±