Why Bubble Warnings Aren't Immediate 'Sell' Signals Why Bubble Warnings Aren't Immediate 'Sell' Signals During the course of the global stock market rally of the past five and a half years, many economic bears have made market crash calls that have proven to be wrong because they were far too early. I am also warning that stocks are experiencing a bubble, but I’ve made a point to differentiate myself from the perpetually early bearish analysts who are known as “permabears.” 
While I warn about bubbles as a concerned activist for the purpose of preventing future crises, I frequently publish tactical market analyses that conclude that bullish action is likely in the near future (Example 1, Example 2). For some reason, my ability to separate my longer-term fundamental bearish outlook from my shorter-term bullish tactical analyses confuses many people who assume that analysts can only have one market outlook for all time frames. On the contrary, I typically have a different market outlook for different time frames; for example: short-term neutral, medium-term bullish, long-term bearish.
	
								 
The ‘Bubblecovery‘ or bubble-driven economic recovery concept that I’ve developed implies that growing economic bubbles help to create bull markets before the bubbles pop and cause a bear market or crash. Though nimble traders can take advantage of these bullish moves before the crash, I still strongly believe in warning about bubbles in hope of preventing their inflation, because bubbles are a lose-lose proposition for society as a whole. 
Statistics show that approximately 90 percent of traders consistently lose money in the markets, but I believe that over 90 percent of people are harmed in some way by the catastrophic popping of bubbles like we experienced in 2008. Even many traders who manage to successfully trade a bubble and bust are unlikely to earn enough profit to compensate for the severe economic damage that is likely to harm their own economic prospects in turn. After living through 2008, I’ll take stability over bubble trading opportunities any day. This alone is a good enough reason for me to continue warning about bubbles even if they keep inflating for many years.
								
										 
Some critics tell me, “stop worrying about bubbles and just make money trading!” Unfortunately, this thinking is very short-sighted and leads me to believe that these critics are “young souls” who do not see the big picture. I think of my bubble warnings as a form of protest against something that I disagree with on a moral level, as well as a threat to our way of life. Some people protest against the destruction of the environment, while others protest against human rights abuses; I protest against the type of bubbles that have made life miserable for far too many people around the world in the past seven years. 
Unfortunately, as the global financial markets continue to rise to stratospheric heights, greed has become the dominant emotion once again, causing messages that urge caution and prudence to fall on deaf ears. 
Please follow me on&nbsp;Twitter,&nbsp;Google+&nbsp;and&nbsp;Facebook&nbsp;to stay informed about the most important trading and bubble news as well as my related commentary.
										
										 
(Disclaimer: All information is provided for&nbsp;educational&nbsp;purposes only and should not be relied on for making any investment decisions.)