Social Security Q&A: If I'm below My FRA and My Spouse Is over 70, Is My Spousal Benefit Half My Spouse's Retirement Benefit? Social Security Q&A: If I'm below My FRA and My Spouse Is over 70, Is My Spousal Benefit Half My Spouse's Retirement Benefit? Social Security may be your largest or one of your largest assets. How you manage it, by deciding which benefits to collect and when, can make an absolutely huge difference to your lifetime benefits. And those with the highest past covered earnings have the most to gain from maximizing their Social Security. 
I’ve been answering questions and writing columns about Social Security each week for the past two years on PBS NEWSHOUR’s website. The editors at Forbes asked me to post a Q&amp;A each day from those columns. To see all my columns, please go to my software company’s site, www.maximizemysocialsecurity.com, and click More Press below the WSJ quote.
	
								 
Today’s question asks if claiming an early spousal benefit based on a record would yield an amount equal to half the current retirement benefit paid on that record. The answer involves the deeming provision as well as the excess spousal benefit and suggests a way to maximize the spousal benefit. 
Question: I am almost 62, and my husband is 77. He is collecting his retirement benefits. It sounds as though I can apply for half of his benefits and begin collecting them at age 62. Is that right? What form do I request to do this?
								
									 
Answer: No, this is not right. If you apply for your spousal benefit before full retirement age (66 in your case), you will be forced to file for your retirement benefit as well under Social Security’s deeming provisions. In other words, Social Security “deems” you to be applying for both benefits if you are under full retirement age and apply for one of the two. Once you file for your retirement benefit or are deemed to have filed for your retirement benefit, your spousal benefit automatically is calculated as your excess spousal benefit. Your excess spousal benefit is half of your husband’s full retirement benefit minus 100 percent of your full retirement benefit. If this difference is negative, your excess spousal benefit is set to zero. 
It could well be that your excess spousal benefit is zero, in which case applying for your spousal benefit at 62 would leave you with a reduced retirement benefit for the rest of your life. Even if you suspend your retirement benefit at 66 and start it up again at a higher value sometime before or at 70, your excess spousal benefit will still be calculated the same way. 
The only way to get a full spousal benefit equal to half of your husband’s full retirement benefit, not half of what he’s actually collecting now, (since he may not have started his own retirement benefit at his full retirement age) is to do nothing until you reach full retirement age and then apply just for your spousal benefit. As I mentioned, “deeming” stops when you reach full retirement age.