Why Applying to Schools Based on Tuition Prices Can Cost Families Money Why Applying to Schools Based on Tuition Prices Can Cost Families Money Parents comparing college costs would be doing themselves and their kids a huge disservice if they just pay attention to listed tuition prices. What really matters is how much the school will cost you after financial aid and outside scholarships. And frankly some school’s offer more scholarships than others. You’d be surprised to see which school’s are on the Princeton Review’s Best Value Colleges for 2014 list. Harvard, Yale and Princeton which have tuition prices that are multiples of state schools were some of the top picks. Why were schools with high tuition rates included?  

 “At 65% (97) of the 150 “Best Value” colleges, the average grant to freshmen with need is more than $10,000. Among the top 10 private “Best Value” colleges, the average cost of attendance is about $17,000 after deducting the average grant to students with need. Among the top 10 public “Best Value” colleges, the average cost for in-state students is about $8,400 after deducting the average grant awarded to students with need.”
	
								
 
Schools such as Harvard are giving out a ton of scholarships and grants. There are even public schools on the list that giving out a lot of grant money. However, grants numbers from a list of 15o schools are great to look at as a starting point, but what an individual qualifies for based on their financial need and merit varies from college-to-college. How can families figure out what a school will really cost? 
Get a starting estimate with these three steps. Remember, this is just an estimate, and you won’t know the final cost until your son or daughter receives their financial aid award letter.
								
										 
1. Have your son or daughter gather a list of 10 schools they’re interested in attending. 
Whatever you do, don’t &nbsp;tell your teen not to include schools that appear to be pricey based on stated tuition. The colleges on the list may give out a lot of financial aid. Do, however, have your son or daughter look up whether your his or her academic performance closely aligns or exceeds the average GPA of admitted students. If your teen’s GPA is lower than the average admitted student, &nbsp;consider the year your offspring’s year in school. Talk to your freshmen, sophomore or junior students about working harder to improve their GPA if he or she really wants to attend that university. Looking up average GPAs of admitted students provides a good dose of reality for students early in their high school careers. Seniors can include one school like this as a reach school. 
2. Use the net price calculators on each school’s website. 
Net price calculators on school websites help families figure out what their student might earn in scholarships and financial aid directly from the school itself. The calculation is based on factors such as family income, GPA, and number of children in a household. These numbers may change as your student’s GPA changes, your income changes, or the school’s available funds change. A helpful motivator for families in the early years of high school is to put in higher GPAs your student could reach for to see the difference in scholarship possibilities. &nbsp; To find the net price calculator for a particular school, type the school’s name and net price calculator into the search bar of the search engine of your choice.
										
										 
3. Talk to the high school counselor for your teen. 
High school counselors are an underused and often undervalued resource. They may know information about which schools gave out financial need based on the experience of other students. They also can help your student hone in on the schools that might be best for them based on career testing, their interests and GPA. It’s proactive for parents to meet with high school counselors because then they have all the information their student has in the college process. If parents are going to contribute financially to their son’s or daughter’s education, it’s even more important that they are involved in the financial aid process. 
These three steps are just the beginning of getting true estimates of the cost of college. &nbsp;Continue to encourage your teen to apply for scholarships, perform well academically, and study which schools they want to apply for and attend.