Bwin.party adopts agile to boost mobile strategy Bwin.party adopts agile to boost mobile strategy Online betting firm Bwin.party is adopting agile development methodologies to speed product release cycles and improve software quality, as it seeks revive its fortunes by focusing on mobile. The company, headquarted in Gibraltar and quoted on the London Stock Exchange, saw revenues fall to 317.1 million (£251 million) in its half year financial results, down from 342.5m (£271m) in 2013. However mobile revenues, highlighted as a significant growth driver for the company, increased 125 percent to 67.4 million (£53 million). Bwin.party now aims to generate 50 percent of gross gaming revenues through smartphones and tablets by the end of next year, up from 35 percent in 2014. "As well as regulatory change, the importance of multi-channel distribution including mobile and touch is increasing, as is the need to be present across social media as consumers spend more time on the move and are connected through multiple platforms and devices," said CEO Norbert Teufelberger. "Delivering an increasingly diverse range of products, whilst meeting all of the market specific regulatory and technology-driven requirements, is placing ever greater strains on the technology infrastructure of all licensed operators." In order to continue to enhance its products and the company has adopted agile software development practices. "We have made solid progress in the first half on continuing to evolve our technology set-up and infrastructure," added Teufelberger. "We have completed the majority of our agile training and created 92 scrum teams as part of our transition to the agile working methodology that is helping us to improve our software release cycle as well as reduce our technical debt and improve the quality of our software releases." Teufelberger noted that the company has invested in its IT platforms in France and Italy to deal with the challenges that industry-wide digital transformation has put on betting operators. Bwin.party deployed a Teradata warehouse platform in 2012 to create a single customer view across all of its gaming verticals.