MoJ seeks help with project to digitise courts MoJ seeks help with project to digitise courts The Ministry of Justice (MoJ) is planning to appoint a supplier to help digitise the criminal justice system (CJS). The supplier will be chosen from one of the 175 firms listed on the Digital Services framework (DSf) via a call-off contract. The contract will be one of the few to have been procured through DSf so far. The latest publicly available figures from May 2014 show that just nine contracts worth a total of £2.3 million have been set up through DSf since it was set up in November 2013, of which 30 percent by value has gone to SMEs. ComputerworldUK requested the latest sales statistics from the Cabinet Office but the department declined to provide them, saying "these figures aren't updated on a monthly basis." The Cabinet Office has extended the first iteration of DSf, which is supposed to be a 'dynamic' framework akin to G-Cloud, until 31 March 2015. It will be well over a year between the first and second iterations, far longer than originally envisaged. IT platform for criminal justice system For its contract the MoJ is seeking help with the 'common platform programme' (CPP), a joint initiative between the Crown Prosecution Service and Crown and Magistrates' Courts. The project aims to create a common IT platform and digital data store for information on cases going through the criminal justice system which will be accessible to all parties involved. In particular, the successful bidder will help to develop the central core of the platform formed of matching, user and account management and directory services. The MoJ also needs authentication services for the platform including identification, registration and enrolment. Identity Assurance The department said it will use the cross-government identity assurance programme (IDAP) once it is up and running. However it explained it needs an interim solution in the meantime. The tender notice said: "until the GDS IDAP and PSN services are fully available and implemented, alternative interim authentication services will need to be found to cover the immediate needs of services wishing to use the CJS CPP." The Cabinet Office's IDA team announced last week that the scheme is due to be piloted in local government for the first time. Over the next three months Milton Keynes Council will test the programme, allowing citizens to certify their identity for government services by reusing authentication with existing providers. The value of the contract has not been disclosed but it is estimated to last for two months. Suppliers listed on DSf have until 5 September to bid for the work.