The Real Reason Some Schools Start After Labor Day: Is It Worth It? The Real Reason Some Schools Start After Labor Day: Is It Worth It? While many of my friends across the country were busy spending their holiday weekend with barbecues and lazy days, I spent my Labor Day weekend shopping for school supplies, reminding my kids to finish their summer assignments, and filling out school forms. For my kids – and roughly 25% of public school children around the country – school starts tomorrow (that loud cheer you hear tomorrow around 7:30 a.m. just might be parents in southeastern Pennsylvania). 
The question of when to send kids back to school has long been a complicated one. There is no predictable schedule for the country as a whole and hasn’t been for some time. School open and closing dates have varied depending on whether the school was located in a hot or cool climate, or an urban versus rural state. In rural areas, for example, school traditionally opened after Labor Day and closed in mid-spring. That allowed farms to operate on schedule without the need to pull kids out of school. As our country has become less agrarian, the calendar has shifted earlier for more and more states, with schools often opening weeks before Labor Day, extending the school year.
	
								 
Not everyone thinks that starting school earlier is a good thing. At least two states are exploring the possibility of pushing the start of school forward to open after Labor Day. Those states, Maryland and Ohio, want summer to last a little longer. The rationale is, as it was traditionally, economics. This time, however, it’s not farm labor but seasonal labor that has folks mulling the change, combined with additional tax dollars derived from tourism. 
In Maryland, a state tax force has voted to push the start of public school until after Labor Day. And while the state legislature hasn’t yet taken up the matter, the state’s Comptroller, Peter Franchot, is encouraging state residents to chime in by signing a petition on his web page supporting the move: the petition will be delivered to the Maryland General Assembly during the next session.
								
										 
According to Franchot, the move would bring an extra $7.7 million in additional tax revenue to the state. That’s because later start dates tend to equal more family vacations at Labor Day. More family vacations mean more dollars paid out. More dollars paid out equals more tax revenue. 
Franchot doesn’t want voters to think it’s all about money, however, adding, “My major concern is the quality of interaction between families and their kids, which is jeopardized by this creep of starting school earlier and earlier. If we keep going in that direction, it will be July when we start school.” 
The Maryland Hotel and Lodging Association (MHLA) has been an advocate of starting school after Labor Day, working with a “broad based key stakeholder work group” to win legislative approval for the proposal. David Reed, President of the MHLA says, about the push, “It’s good economic sense in terms of generating revenue from the state.” 
Maryland State Education Association, the Public Schools Superintendents Association of Maryland and the Maryland Association of Boards of Education generally oppose a later start date, citing both the need for students to be at school in order to learn and worries about inclement weather. 
										
										 
 
 
  
  English: Schoolbus Parking Lot, Coney Island. (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
  
 
&nbsp; 
In Maryland’s neighboring state of Virginia, schools are banned from starting early. Under the so-called “King’s Dominion law” – yes, named after the amusement park – public schools may not open before Labor Day without a seeking a waiver from the state. The law has been around since 1986 and was pushed through by the tourism industry, a fact that hasn’t gone unnoticed by many. Earlier this year, a push to change the law faced clear opposition from new Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe who indicated he would not be inclined to support a change, saying, “I’m very concerned about the tourism issue.” Virginia’s former Governor Bob McDonnell had supported repeal of the law (but then Gov. McDonnell apparently had a few other things on his mind). 
Katie Hellebush, director of government relations for the Virginia Hospitality and Travel Association (VHTA), has consistently opposed efforts to start school before Labor Day, saying. “We have conducted studies, and we do anticipate that there would be a significant loss in terms of $369 million, which would include more than $104 million in wages and benefits lost.” That loss of revenue includes not tourist dollars but dollars (and tax dollars) targeted to teen jobs. Hellebush has indicated that while tourist dollars suffer with an earlier school start date, education test scores did not decline with a later school start date. 
Virginia is just one of a handful of states that have specific laws preventing schools from opening before Labor Day. One of the other states, Michigan, also touts tourism as the reason for a later start date. In 2012, the Michigan Lodging and Tourism Association (MLTA) reported that tourism dollars have increased each year since the new school start date policy took effect in 2006, a statistic that didn’t go unnoticed by its neighbors. In 2011, Ohio considered pushing back on the summer creep in schools by starting school later; those efforts were ultimately not successful. Today, some schools in the Buckeye State start as early as mid-August. 
In Minnesota, where a pre-Labor Day start to school is also banned without permission, a study (downloads as a pdf) found that a later school start resulted in a significant increase in the likelihood of a family trip in August or September. However, that doesn’t necessarily mean that travel plans would be canceled altogether if the school year started earlier. With a later school start, the study concluded that some families (about 1 in 5) would simply reschedule for an earlier month. 
Other states have considered a change in school calendars, including my own state of Pennsylvania: a push in 2006 to make school start dates later for the entire state failed. In a state heavily dependent on tourism (it’s our #2 revenue raiser behind agriculture bringing in about $67 billion in 2012), a later start date should equal more dollars. A study that came out of that effort to change the school calendar indicated that Pennsylvania would have benefited by $378 million in direct net revenue from the move. Currently, however, just over 10% of public schools in the state start after Labor Day (including the Philadelphia School District). 
Curiously, my family’s own experiences back up many of these vacation statistics. Our family traditionally goes on vacation during the week before Labor Day. This year, my daughter’s school orientation fell during that week: when we couldn’t book a cabin at the same place we usually go (they were full in the other weeks), we canceled altogether. Here’s where we skew the data a little: while that 2006 study indicates that Pennsylvania families are more likely to make their in-state vacations in late summer, we tend to spend our summer tourist dollars out of state. This year, however, in an interesting twist, canceling our weeklong out-of-state vacation meant that we made a day trip inside the state instead: we headed to Camelback Mountain Adventures in the Poconos for zip lining, rock climbing and other outdoor adventures. 
  Our experiences aside, is it worth it to lure tourist dollars at the expense of a shorter school year? States that bank on tourist dollars and related tax revenues say yes. In Pennsylvania, the state’s travel and tourism industry generated an estimated $4.0 billion in state and local taxes and $4.0 billion in federal taxes in 2012 (report downloads as a pdf). One out of every 16 workers in the state is supported in some way by the tourism industry. Cutting short the opportunity for tourism means fewer tourist dollars and therefore, fewer tax dollars. That impact, advocates say, is measurable. 
Educators argue that a shorter school year is bad for students and encourages the so-called “summer slide” when some students show a drop in achievement after the summer break. President Obama and U.S. Secretary of Education Arne Duncan both support a longer school year to prevent a slide but not everyone is convinced that it makes a difference. A study conducted by Johns Hopkins sociology professor Karl Alexander suggests that low income students suffer the most in summer but “simply keeping students in school longer is not the key.” 
Sorting out those arguments isn’t easy. Realistically, tax dollars are needed to keep schools open. More tax dollars are needed to keep schools open longer. Yet, keeping schools open longer means that there are likely fewer tax dollars being generated in summer. 
So which strategy do you embrace? A longer summer or a longer school year? It’s a question that they’ll struggle with in Maryland this year. I suspect that there will be whispers about similar changes in states like Pennsylvania, Ohio and Virginia where the length of school calendars continue to be an issue. The question is settled, however, for this year: by this time tomorrow, nearly all public school children in the U.S. will be back in school. 
(My annual Back To School series kicks off soon! Keep watching this space for back to school tax tips, giveaways and more!) 
&nbsp; 
Want more taxgirl goodness? Pick your poison: follow me on twitter, hang out on Facebook and Google, play on Pinterest or check out my YouTube channel. For cases and tax related docs, visit Scribd.