Believe It Or Not, Market Sees More Upside For India Believe It Or Not, Market Sees More Upside For India The Sensex is just one one straight climb. The chart on this thing over the last several days just shows one opening higher than the next. Is there no end to this love affair with Indian equities? 
“India is an overweight. Top down and bottom up, the political landscape are as good as they could have been and the economy is improving,” says Marc Tommasi, head of international equities for Manning &amp; Napier in Rochester, NY.
	
								 
Raamdeo Agrawal, co-founder and managing director for Motilal Oswal Financial Services told The Economic Times on Tuesday that the Sensex will likely top out at 30,000 sometime between now and March 2015. It’s currently just under 27,000. 

								
										


–This year’s darling of emerging markets. Every year investors have one. And this year it is India. 
 
“If the current government does not deliver what it has promised, then the P/E estimates can fall very fast to lower levels. There is also a possibility that the index can hit the 100,000 mark by the time Modi starts his second term in the government, provided corporate earnings continue to surprise everybody. Markets should double in the next five years and I would be surprised if it doesn’t happen,” Agrawal said about India’s new prime minister Narendra Modi. 
The market has been enamored with Indian politics since September. That’s when Raghuram Rajan took over as the governor of the Reserve Bank of India. The market rose over 25% from early September til the end of the year. Then from January to May, it rose another 25% thanks to the market confidence in a Modi landslide. They got their landslide. Markets corrected in profit taking and a mild disappointment in the budget, but Indian stocks remain on a bull run. 
The Wisdom Tree India (EPI) exchange traded fund is up 30.5% year-to-date while the MSCI Emerging Markets Index is up just 7%.
										
										 
“I love Modi. You have to be bullish on India’s long term prospects because of this guy,” says Peter Kohli, CIO of DMS Funds in Leesport, Pa. 
On Tuesday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch said Indian markets and earnings are expected to double in the next four years, adding that buying on declines would be a wise way to build positions in India now. 
Merrill analysts said in a note that Indian equities would remain range bound and may correct around 5% over the next two months. For many investors, this is a buying opportunity. 
“Valuations are still attractive at these levels given the future growth story,” says Tommasi. “I like a few sectors in particular, like anything to do with infrastructure and a consumers.” 
Tommasi told FORBES that he owns consumer travel company Make My Trip Ltd (MMYT) and Jain Irrigation System, which is traded on the Bombay Stock Exchange only. Jain is up 29.16% so far this year and Make My Trip is up 50.47% over the same period. 



–Up, up and a way. India’s travel website MakeMyTrip making investors with Manning &amp; Napier funds quite happy with this pick.
