When The Rich And Famous Get Into Trouble When The Rich And Famous Get Into Trouble Everyone makes mistakes. It’s part of the human condition. According to Richard J. Flynn, managing partner of Flynn Family Office, “In working for the super-rich, there are going to be times when they or their loved ones do something that’s not very smart. There are other times when circumstances get out of control. And, other times when they’re being victimized. These are times I get a panicked call. When I get one of these calls, my job is to pull together the appropriate team of specialists and personally manage the process to remedy the problem.” 
While not unique to the rich and famous, the consequences of getting into trouble include: 
	
								 
 
 Their public persona is adversely impacted. 
 It can be an expensive proposition. 
 Careers can be derailed. 
 Personal relationships can be destroyed. 
 They can lose their freedom. 
 All of the above. 
 
When they get into trouble, they usually start in the same position as anyone else. However, their ability to bring resources to bear on the problem can readily and dramatically modify the situation potentially ameliorating the negatives. 
For example, Andrew J. O’Connell, President of Investigations and Private Client Protection, Guidepost Solutions, is one of the first calls many lawyers, business managers and family office executives make when one of their renowned and wealthy clients runs into serious difficulty. “The ability to quickly and accurately assess a situation, and knowing what can be done to deal with the problems can make all the difference in the world,” explains O’Connell, “Complicated situations require a great deal of experience and expertise to make these kind of problems go away.”
								
										 
The rich and famous not only call for help when they make mistakes, they call for help to deal with the array of predators that target them. Criminals of all stripes often look at the wealthy and renowned as piggy banks to be cracked open. There are also the psychologically impaired who are fixated on the rich and famous. These situations are another time the expertise of these select professionals is rapidly brought into play. 
“When dealing with any kind of predator it’s vital to have a deep understanding of their psychology including the way they’re likely to respond to various situations and remedies,” notes O’Connell, “This understanding lets us take the most well-thought through actions possible.” These insights prove to be critical in order to attain the best solution. 
There’s no question that the affluent and illustrious have distinct advantages when they err. It’s their right and it’s only logical to use their resources to address these types of problems. At the same time, when criminals target them, they regularly turn to the same experts to make these evils go away. In both scenarios, when the rich and famous are in trouble of their own doing or not, there are some very talented and smart professionals ready to help them resolve their tribulations.
										
										 
&nbsp;