How to find a financial planner How to find a financial planner Ramin Rahimian for USA TODAYMeg Cruz, 28, asked friends and family for advice when deciding whom to choose as a financial planner.Mike Lenz had his first brush with professional financial advice two decades ago, when he started working with a commission-based adviser as a late 20-something.He doesn't remember how he found the adviser – either through a mailing or by cold calling. But the experience was enough for him to drop the professional after a year and take on financial planning himself for the next 20 years."They were trying to make a lot more money on the commissions," he says. "It was more that they were looking out for their interests rather than my interests."But last year, Lenz, 47, decided that with a wife and two kids he plans to send to college, it was time to find someone who could double-check his finances. After doing research online and getting recommendations from friends, he interviewed three people before picking the one he wanted to work with. "It's kind of like buying a house," he says. "Don't necessarily go with the first person you talk to."His advice is echoed by financial planners themselves, who say you should approach the task of finding someone to share your most intimate financial details with the same as you would any other service you'd pay for. That includes properly vetting them."You have to be able to like that individual so you can develop a relationship," says George Hunter, president of Hunter Capital in Columbia, Md. "Then you have to trust them."Lenz says he knew he'd found the right adviser in Janet Stanzak of Financial Empowerment LLC in Bloomington, Minn., because they had the same attitude about financial planning. And Lenz liked the more personal touch to her office, which "wasn't one of those high-rises" downtown, he says, but is connected to an auto repair shop her husband owns.With his initial failed attempt at working with a financial planner in mind, Lenz had a particular set of criteria he wanted to meet, including finding out how each adviser was paid. Don't be afraid to ask how a planner is compensated, says Tim Minard, senior vice president of distribution at Principal Financial Group. "Have transparent conversations about how and what they get paid," he says. "Any adviser today really has to be fully transparent."For Lenz, finding a fee-based adviser was a must, because he didn't want to work with someone who was concerned with pushing products. He paid Stanzak $2,500 for several months' worth of meetings during which they developed a plan, which included asset allocation, retirement planning and saving to send his kids to college.Advisers also recommend checking out credentials. Look for professionals with designations like Certified Financial Planner (CFP®), Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA®) or the Chartered Life Underwriter (CLU®), or do your search through organizations like the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority."You can trust that they have a certain amount of expertise," Hunter says.You can also vet the firms advisers work for by checking financial strength ratings with Moody's or Standard &amp; Poor's, says Chantel Bonneau, an adviser with Northwestern Mutual in Los Angeles."Look for advisers that work for a strong company," she says. "It is also important to have a company that has ample resources and research as your needs change."Even if you think you can't afford a financial planner, Minard cautions not to judge your need for financial advice on the level of assets you have. If you're just starting out in the workforce or don't have money to invest — at least yet — that doesn't mean you won't be able to find an adviser willing to work with you.Asking friends and family for recommendations can often be the first step. That's what Meg Cruz, 28, did when she first started looking for financial advice two years ago. A sorority sister recommended Bonneau after meeting her at an event. Cruz appreciated that Bonneau was a woman and fellow Millennial who understood her financial position as a young adult. When Cruz and her now-husband got engaged last year, they started meeting with Bonneau together to discuss renter's insurance, life insurance and saving for retirement."She didn't talk down to us," says Cruz, who works as a development officer for a hospital foundation in San Francisco. "She talked to us. Person-to-person as opposed to 'I'm the expert and you're going to listen to what I say.' I can tell she knows what she's talking about without sounding aggressive. She is selling a product but she does it in a very tactful way."Cruz and her husband pay only for the products they purchase through Bonneau, though they also participate in a paid plan with LearnVest, an online financial management tool, for help with budgeting and working toward financial goals. Overall, if you have a responsible and committed mind-set toward your finances, that can go just as far in getting started with a financial adviser as your net worth, Minard says."If you sit down and say, 'Look I just started my career and I want to put together a financial plan that includes beginning to work toward retirement, balancing my budget and being a good financial steward of my earnings,'" he says, "you can find advisers who will respond positively to that conversation."