Best Consumer Stocks For Emerging Market Investors Best Consumer Stocks For Emerging Market Investors Risk on. 
If that sounds about right to you, then there is no place better to crank up the riskometer than in emerging market consumer stocks. &nbsp;That’s been the investment narrative now since the commodity bubble burst right around the same time the housing market collapsed. Last year’s concern over the so-called “Fragile Five” have given way to the “Resilient Five”. &nbsp;Even with tighter credit, weaker economies, currency crises and lackluster demand for exports, not a single emerging market has gone belly up. This isn’t the 1980s, or the 90s anymore.
	
								 
For example, despite a technical recession in Brazil, BR Foods is up 26.2%. &nbsp;BR Foods owns the Sadia and Perdigao brands, two of the biggest names in food. Shareholders of this stock are not worried about back to back negative growth in Brazilian GDP. 
Russia is dealing with a political and economic crisis. The U.S. and European Union have sanctioned its economy because of its actions supporting anti-government protests in Ukraine. But while the Market Vectors Russia (RSX) exchange traded fund is down 18.5% year-to-date, shopping mall giant Magnit is down just 2.25%. Over the last three months, Magnit is up over 1.4%, while RSX is still in the red and down by more than 7%.
								
										 

 
 Brazil’s favorite soft drink is owned by Ambev, a favorite long term hold for emerging market investors who like to play the consumer space.
 
On Tuesday, investment research firm Morningstar released an 89 page report on emerging market consumers, saying companies with “wide economic moats” or with brand portfolios across multiple pricing levels and expansive distribution networks—are best positioned to monetize consumer demand in emerging markets. 
Their favorites were Brazilian beverage company Ambev, Atlanta-based multinational, Coca-Cola, U.K.’s Diageo, &nbsp;India’s ITC and United Breweries, Wuliangye Yibin, and Yum! Brands, which is big on China and not just Kentucky. 
“Population growth, private investment, and urbanization are all conducive to creating wealth in emerging markets. Disposable income gradually increases over time as consumers shift from rural to urban settings and trade agricultural jobs for positions in the manufacturing, service, and technology industries. Companies with recognizable brands available at multiple price points will have the most success reaching a larger pool of customers,” R.J. Hottovy, Morningstar’s consumer equity strategist, said in a press release.
										
										 
Euromonitor recently forecast that emerging markets will account for nearly three fourths of the world’s&nbsp;urban population by 2015, and that consumers with more than $5,000 in disposable income in these markets will add about 1 billion individuals in the next 10 years. 
That’s a lot of soap, toothpaste and chicken wings. 
A large proportion of the growth in the global consuming class will come from India and China, of course,&nbsp;which are expected to add 200 million and 400 million individuals, respectively, by 2020. &nbsp;Over the next several years, Morningstar researchers said that rising incomes will also mean a rise in consumer staple spending in Russia, Brazil, South Africa, Kenya, Nigeria, Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia. 
Marc Tommasi, a fund manager for Manning &amp; Napier in Rochester, NY, said he is overweight India consumer stocks, not just the staples. “This is a very good time to be invested in the Indian consumer,” he said. His fund holds MakeMyTrip (MMYT), an Indian travel company. 
Morningstar’s Favorites A look at companies both domestic and foreign that are poised to do well thanks to these emerging markets. 
China: Wuliangye Yibin Co. Want Want China Holdings Yum! Brands 
India: India Tobacco Company Coca-Cola Unilever 
Latin America: United Breweries AmBev Coca-Cola Femsa SAB 
  CEE: Carlsberg SA Philip Morris International Imperial Tobacco Group 
Africa: Yum! Brands Diageo Unilever