How Accounting Firms Become Family Offices How Accounting Firms Become Family Offices These days many accounting services are considered commodities; there are more competitors vying for the same business with no discernible difference between offerings and consistent downward pressure on fees in order to attract new revenue. Simultaneously, many clients, especially those with significant personal wealth, are demanding a higher level of service from their providers. This combination of factors means the accounting field is facing some critical dilemmas that can impact the long-term sustainability and profitability of its core relationships and business lines. 
While these trends are having an adverse effect on the business of accounting, there are specialty practices that can be introduced to an established accounting firm that will help to change the current dynamics. A family office practice is one such specialty area that can create new opportunities to strengthen relationships, deliver high-value services and cross-sell other capabilities of the firm. While this practice area has proven invaluable for a number of leading accounting firms, Hannah Shaw Grove, an expert on the formation and operation of family offices and a founder of Private Wealth magazine says “they must be developed and operated in a way that complements the culture, expertise, and business protocols of the existing organization in order to ensure success and increase revenues and profits.”
	
								 
Generally speaking, accounting firms adopts one of two business models when delivering family office services – product-neutral or product-inclusive. 
A product-neutral business model is built around the delivery of services in exchange for a retainer, project or hourly fee. The typical services offered via a product-neutral model tend to be administrative, advanced planning or lifestyle in nature and might include things like accounting and tax work, estate and succession planning, and concierge support.
								
									 
A product-inclusive business model is similar to the product-neutral framework, with the addition of financial products such as investment management and life insurance. The products can be provided by an affiliated organization or a third-party, but the relationship and treatment of fees between the accounting firm and the product issuer must be clear and disclosed upfront. In addition to the fee-based revenue associated with the product-neutral model, the product-inclusive model allows for the addition of asset-based fees and commissions, depending on the products sold. 
When selecting a business model for a family office practice, an accounting firm should take into account a number of critical differences. For example, the typical operating margins for a product-neutral model range from 40 percent to 65 percent while a product-inclusive model is often somewhat higher, ranging between 50 percent and 75 percent. Grove says: “there are advantages and disadvantages to both models that extend well beyond profitability.” She points out that the “best” business model “is one that “suits the professionals involved, the operational environment, and the type and nature of the firm’s wealthy clientele.”