Nine S&P 500 Poor Performers Poised To Rebound Nine S&P 500 Poor Performers Poised To Rebound By George Putnam 
The S&amp;P 500, up more than 22%, has been one of the best performers over the past year among the major stock indices. But that doesn’t mean that all of its component stocks have fared well.
	
								 
In fact, as investors seem to be getting increasingly nervous about the stock market, when a big-name stock falls short of expectations, or gets out of favor with Wall Street for some other reason, it tends to get crushed. As a result, a number of S&amp;P 500 stocks are down more than 20% over the past 12 months. 
I looked at the bottom performers in the index over the past year, and the ones discussed below all appear to have significant rebound potential for those investors willing to bet against the crowd. They all have solid business franchises, and several of them have powerful brand names as well.
								
										 
ADT Market cap: $6.4 billion Forward P/E: 17.5 Yield: 2.2% 
ADT has a long history of market leadership in home and business security systems. But it also has a history of ownership changes, most recently being spun off by Tyco in October 2012, and so management has been distracted. 
In addition, the entry of cable television operators has provided a new source of competition. Last January, ADT’s stock swooned nearly 17% on a disappointing earnings report. 
Management appears proactive, releasing solid new products and entering promising partnerships with Ford, McAfee and State Farm. And cash flow appears ample to cover debt expense, which has increased with borrowings used, in part, to fund share buybacks.
										
										 
Bed Bath &amp; Beyond Market cap: $13.o billion Forward P/E: 11.8 Price/sales (ttm): 1.1  Bed Bath &amp; Beyond stumbled in early 2014 when it appeared that the retailer’s growth momentum might be stalling. On January 9, the stock fell 12% following an earnings report; another 6% slide followed on April 10 as same store sales softened. The retailer had been a general beneficiary of the improving economy and a specific beneficiary of the housing recovery, and I expect those trends to resume. 
In addition, Bed Bath &amp; Beyond’s management has responded by, among other things, capitalizing on the company’s traditionally debt-free capital structure and strong cash flow to issue $1.5 billion of debt and add $1.1 billion to its already sizable stock repurchase program. 
Coach Market cap: $10.2 billion Forward P/E: 17.7 Yield: 3.7% 
Coach, probably the world’s most recognizable brand in premium leather goods, is seeking to find the right design/price-point combination as it expands the brand into clothing and other accessories. A new CEO, promoted from within, took over in January, and Coach is now transitioning to a new designer. The turnaround initiative includes closing some retail locations and moving out old inventory, and so the next quarter or two may offer more disappointing news. 
But expectations have been lowered, as has the valuation of the company, and so any positive surprises should generate significant appreciation. And with more than three times as much cash as debt, there is little balance-sheet risk. 
Diamond Offshore Drilling Market cap: $6.0 billion Forward P/E: 11.4 Yield: 1.2% 
Diamond Offshore Drilling is one of the leading offshore oil drillers. The whole sector has been weak in recent quarters as the worldwide energy market undergoes some changes, but its long-term potential remains strong as there is an ever increasing demand for fossil fuels around the world.&nbsp; Diamond’s capital structure is sound, and the stock is likely to rebound nicely when drilling picks up again. 
Noble Market cap: $7.2 billion Forward P/E: 10.4 Yield: 5.3% 
  Noble (not to be confused with Noble Energy) is refocusing its business on operating shallow and deepwater drilling rigs. In early August, Noble completed its spin-off to its shareholders’ ownership in many of its older assets via a new company called Paragon Offshore plc. Management also re-domiciled the company to the U.K., largely for tax reasons. 
While there may be some “noise” trading around the spin-off, temporary weakness might well provide a good long-term opportunity. 
Target Market cap: $38.2 billion Forward P/E: 15.9 Yield: 3.5% 
Target was itself the target (pun intended) of hackers last December; some 40 million accounts were compromised. Sales suffered as did margins as Target was forced to offer aggressive discounts just before Christmas. Target is also struggling in Canada where it made an acquisition last year. On top of all that, the rollout of its online and food offerings has been slower than planned. 
The board named Brian Cornell as new CEO and chairman on July 31, replacing Gregg Steinhafel who stepped down as CEO in May. Cornell most recently served as CEO of PepsiCo Americas Foods. Management is also taking meaningful steps to stop the bleeding in Canada and improve the rollout of its online offering. With the privacy issue largely behind it, Target has solid rebound potential. 
Teradata Market cap: $7.2 billion Forward P/E: 14.7 Price/sales (ttm): 2.6 
Teradata had a good run after being spun off from NCR in 2007. As a provider of data management and analysis products and services, the company was well positioned as “big data” became all the rage. But when management warned of slowing sales in October 2013, the stock collapsed 18% in one day. Teradata’s stock has bounced around in a fairly narrow range ever since as increased competition and more sluggish overall economic growth have kept investors wary. 
Nonetheless, Teradata’s technical expertise, entrenched position with Fortune 500 customers and healthy balance sheet and cash flow position it well for the future. 
Urban Outfitters (URBN) Market cap: $5.5 billion Forward P/E: 17.3 Price/sales (TTM): 1.7 
Urban Outfitters derives the bulk of its sales not from its Urban Outfitter stores (roughly 41% of sales) but from its Anthropologie Group (about 43%) that targets a somewhat older demographic. Sales at Anthropologie are doing well, and demand for the company’s Free People brand is also quite strong. 
To be sure, there are headwinds, including subdued economic growth and active competition, but management sees good growth potential in international expansion and the further build out of the Anthropologie and Free People lines. 
Any turnaround at its namesake stores could lead to solid gains in the stock price. 
Whole Foods Market Market cap: $14.1 billion Forward P/E: 22.7 Yield: 1.2% 
Whole Foods has long been dominant in large-scale natural foods retailing, but it now has more competition nipping at its heels. For the last several quarters, the stock has sold off on earnings reports that fell short of investors’ growth expectations. For example, in May, the stock dropped nearly 19% on second quarter earnings. 
Whole Foods is responding by lowering some of its price points to be more competitive and by opening new stores. With only about 400 stores, there is plenty of room for further expansion. Margins may be pressured for another quarter or two, but with an outstanding balance sheet and solid brand, I doubt the Whole Foods’ growth story is over. – George Putnam is editor of the Turnaround Letter. Excerpted from August issue of the Turnaround Letter.  
&nbsp;