A Decrease In Cadillac Sales Is Bad News For GM A Decrease In Cadillac Sales Is Bad News For GM Profits in the auto sector are set to fall. The reasons behind this are the following  
 
 Used car sales in the U.S., the second largest car market in the world, are on the rise. Since, these cars sell for low prices, automakers are being forced to offer discounts and incentives on new cars to remain competitive. A drop in average transaction price per vehicle sold reduces an auto company’s profitability. 
 In recent years, most of the gains in the U.S. auto market have come from the luxury car segment. However, the trends within the luxury car segment are such that the total segment has been unable to grow faster than industry wide sales. Consumers, benefiting from generous lease programs and incentives, are preferring to buy smaller luxury cars.&nbsp;This is also impacting the profitability of car companies. 
 Most of the growth in the global auto market is expected to come from the emerging markets. Sales growth in these markets is driven by smaller cars. The margins on these cars is usually lower than on sedans and SUVs. 
 The European auto market has been struggling. Many car companies have had to cut capacity in the continent and are now focusing on the small car segment to drive growth. As a result, the scope for profits from the region has declined. 
 A number of companies have had to recall cars due to a variety of defects. Costs associated with recalls are unplanned expenses and act as a drain on planned investments. These costs include not only costs associated with repairs and refitting of faulty parts but also penalties imposed by regulatory authorities and litigation costs associated with damage caused to consumers. 
 
As a result, car companies are being forced to look at other opportunities for improving their margins. Some companies, like Volkswagen, Toyota and Ford, have tried to bring all their global production under one platform. The rationale behind this trend is that using standardized production methods not only allow them to lower the marginal cost of production but also allow them to reduce the difficulty of the recall and repair process, should it need to be carried out. Apart from cost cutting, the other path being followed by companies in the search of higher margins is the increasing weight of luxury cars in their sales mix. Consider Volkswagen for example: the German automaker’s luxury brand Audi contributes nearly 40% to its operating profits and has an EBITDA margin of nearly 22%. The heavy presence of Audi in its sales mix means that the company is able to post EBITDA margins of nearly 12%. (See our full analysis of Volkswagen AG here) General Motors has been trying to follow a similar strategy since 2012. The U.S. based auto maker has been working hard to revitalize its premium car brand Cadillac. Reviving sales of Cadillac can help GM reach a pre-tax margin of 10%, nearly 2 percentage points higher than its current pre-tax margin of just under 8%. For a while, it looked like GM might achieve its targets. However, Cadillac’s sales growth ran out of momentum towards the end of 2013. In the first quarter of 2014, Cadillac sales fell by more than 7% in the U.S. Even though Cadillac has introduced several new models, sales have failed to pick up.
	
								 
We have a $40 price estimate for General Motors, which is about 18% higher than the current market price. 
See full analysis for General Motors
								
										 
New Model Launches 
In 2012, the Cadillac portfolio was down to just three models- the CTS mid-size car, the SRX crossover and the Escalade SUV. Towards the end of the year, the company launched two new models- the XTS full-size sedan, which targeted Cadillac’s pre-existing customer base, and the ATS compact sedan, a car designed to be competitive with the popular German compact luxury cars. The introduction of these two cars worked like a charm for the company, making Cadillac the fastest growing luxury brand in the U.S. Even though the sales of the CTS, Escalade and SRX were either falling or stagnant, overall Cadillac sales grew by about 22% in 2013. 
Cadillac’s sales momentum began flagging towards the end of fiscal 2013 and deliveries have continued to fall ever since. For the month of July, ATS volumes fell by 11% and XTS volumes fell by 34% compared to the previous year.&nbsp;On a year-to-date basis, ATS sales are down by nearly 21% and XTS sales are down by 24%.&nbsp;Both these models performed well in their first year but it appears as though demand for both models peaked last year. The decline in sales can be explained by what the models set out to achieve: the XTS was targeted at Cadillac’s pre-existing customer base and it is clear that that market does not have room for continued growth; the ATS was launched to steal market share from German luxury makers and this is proving difficult for GM. So far this year, BMW has sold over three times the number of cars sold by Cadillac and Mercedes has sold nearly twice that number. 
Outlook
										
										 
Surprisingly, Cadillac’s older models have all posted gains in the number of unit sales in 2014, with the Escalade SUV the biggest gainer at a sales growth rate of 35% on a year-to-date basis. GM launched a re-modeled version of the Escalade late last year. The model refresh has been extremely successful and sales of the model have nearly doubled so far this year. GM now holds 37% market in the large luxury SUV segment.&nbsp;Another Cadillac model to post a sales increase this year has been the SRX crossover, which is benefiting from the surging popularity of small utility vehicles. However, GM might not be able to cash in on this trend as small utility vehicles will be one of the last segments to be refreshed by the company. Cadillac is expected to offer a redesigned SRX for the 2016 model year. GM also has plans to introduce 2 more Cadillac crossovers around 2017. The luxury crossover market is booming but GM has decided to focus on updating other models before its SUVs and crossovers. Consequently, it is hard to foresee Cadillac posing a credible challenge to the likes of BMW, Mercedes and Audi. 
See More at Trefis | View Interactive Institutional Research (Powered by Trefis) Get Trefis Technology 
Like our charts? Embed them in your own posts using the Trefis WordPress Plugin.