Investors Aren't Fooled By Brazil's IP Rebound Investors Aren't Fooled By Brazil's IP Rebound Brazil’s industrial production (IP) rose in July as the locals got back to work following a month long FIFA World Cup. But that doesn’t have investors turning bullish. At best, Brazil remains a neutral call, with day trades continuing to speculate that next month’s presidential election bodes well for a change in economic policy. 
July industrial production rose above consensus estimates to 0.7% month over month. Consensus was for IP to increase by 0.5% following the 1.4% drop in June.
	
								 
Compared to last July, though, Brazil is hardly firing on all four cylinders. IP in Brazil is down 3.5% from last year and year-to-date is already down 2.8% from the same period in 2013. 
Just before noon in New York, the iShares MSCI Brazil (EWZ) exchange traded fund trimmed 1.28%, making it the worst performing BRIC market ETF today.
								
										 


 
  Flash Player 9 or higher is required to view the chartClick here to download Flash Player now
 


–The iShares MSCI Brazil ETF became the worst performing BRIC market on Tuesday following release of industrial production data. Brazil remains a political risk play as elections get underway next month.
 
Sector-wise, capital goods rose 16.7% from June levels after contracting by 12.7% that month, while durable goods increased 20.3% over June, following a 22.2% decline in the previous month’s reading. 
Marcelo Solomon, an economist for Barclays in New York, said that after the IP data, their in-house third quarter GDP tracker now points to flat growth. That would imply July’s GDP edged up maybe 0.5% after declining 1.5% in June.
										
										 
Solomon said BarCap’s forecast for Brazil’s real GDP in the third is around 0.1% over the second quarter. However, he warned in a note to clients Tuesday morning that both business and consumer sentiment remain sour, which “fails to support signs of a meaningful recovery trend taking place prior to the October elections.”