Web Marketing Experts to create 115 new jobs in Melbourne Web Marketing Experts to create 115 new jobs in Melbourne Search engine optimisation (SEO) company Web Marketing Experts (WME) has expanded its Melbourne office as it looks to hire 115 new staff by December 2014. The company was founded in 2008 by Nick Bell and employs 180 staff at its Melbourne head office. It has an additional 170 staff spread across offices in Sydney, Auckland, Singapore, Hong Kong, Dubai and California. Its customers include Groupon, Jims Mowing and SingTel. While WME's primary business is SEO, it also offers services such as Web design and Facebook/LinkedIn marketing. "In the past many businesses will have simply put an ad in the Yellow Pages and their marketing would be pretty much done. Today, it is all about online search and you need to be on page one of Google," Bell said in a statement. "If people can't find you they won't buy from you." According to Bell, the company is looking to establish an office in South America next year. He would not say which cities it is looking at. Victorian Minister for Technology Gordon Rich-Phillips said the company had "seized the opportunities" presented by the digital economy in Victoria. "The success of Web Marketing Experts is a great story for all Victorian businesses generally, with its recognition of new market opportunities, investment in skilled people and delivery of innovative services," he said in a statement. Read more:IBM launches on-shore SoftLayer cloud services in Australia According to Rich-Phillips, the Victorian Coalition government has helped facilitate 500 new ICT jobs and over $1 billion in technology investments since coming to power in November 2010. In August 2014, Bangalore, India-based Dexler Information Solutions opened an office in Melbourne and expects to create 25 new jobs by the end of this year. Dexler Information Solutions opened the office after acquiring Online Learning Australia (OLLA), which works with AMP, ANZ Banking Group, Coles, Target, National Australia Bank and Westpac. In June 2014, United States-based technology company Asurion invested $3.7 million to set up two technical support centres in Victoria, creating 300 jobs in the state. Asurion provides mobile handset insurance protection and extended service plans for retailers and services providers with 280 million customers worldwide. Follow Hamish Barwick on Twitter: @HamishBarwick Follow Computerworld Australia on Twitter: @ComputerworldAU, or take part in the Computerworld conversation on LinkedIn: Computerworld Australia Read more:Dexler Information Solutions sets up shop in Melbourne