Entrepreneurs, rest is key to your success Entrepreneurs, rest is key to your success ThinkstockYou owe it to yourself, your family and your customers to take care of yourself, and a good way to start is by getting sufficient rest.While chatting with a friend recently the discussion of balancing work and leisure came up.  She said that getting her kids ready to go back to school also means gearing up to get back to serious work at her consulting company.Kids returning to school are a reminder to get back to work.  And indeed, vacations and those long lazy summer days of hanging out at the beach are becoming a memory.But on the way to a prosperous business, no matter what time of year it is, we still have to remember to include rest and relaxation along with everything else.I recently saw a segment on the  show about how important it is to get the proper sleep.  According to the show, when we don't get enough sleep we struggle in subtle ways throughout the day.I remember being  interviewed for a magazine and the journalist asking how much sleep did my busy schedule allow.  She was shocked when I told her that I get seven to eight hours of sleep each night and sometimes I take a short nap in the afternoon.The writer said that she interviews entrepreneurs and celebrities all the time and the most they get is four hours of sleep a night.  She said that most successful people she meets say that their schedules don't allow for more than four or five hours of sleep. One entrepreneur told her he would catch up on his sleep when he took the "big sleep" that comes with death.I was surprised to hear that there are entrepreneurs who don't value rest and relaxation as much as they do activity.  Non-activity is as important to success as activity.  I believe that it may be more important, not only for health and well being but also for developing a successful business.We need rest and relaxation in order to review and examine where we have been, and where we are going.  And, we need the benefit of having a quiet place of retreat  as an escape from the usual rush of activities that comes with being an entrepreneur.Studies show that when you don't get enough sleep you're putting your ability to concentrate, your mood and overall health at risk. Which means you are also putting your family as well as your customers at risk.  And recently a doctor friend told me that sleep deprivation impedes weight loss and causes inflammation in the body.I remember hearing on the news about a school bus driver falling asleep at the wheel during a brief stop at a traffic light.  In that short time of waiting for the light to change he drifted into sleep, and the bus drifted into traffic. One of the middle-school kids on the bus thought that he had had a heart attack and started screaming which of course woke up the driver.There is nothing impressive about depriving your body and mind of sufficient rest! If your schedule won't allow you to take a relaxation break during the day, then by all means get a good night's sleep.When folks tell me that they don't have time to rest I ask them to consider getting on a plane with a sleep deprived pilot or having surgery by a doctor that only got a few hours of sleep the night before.You owe it to yourself, your family and your customers to take care of yourself, and a good way to start is by getting sufficient rest. That is a good start of getting more balance into your life..