Phones 4U PIK Toggle High Yield Bonds Stagger, Sparking Default Talk Phones 4U PIK Toggle High Yield Bonds Stagger, Sparking Default Talk Phones 4U&nbsp;10% PIK-toggle notes due 2019 were crushed yesterday, plummeting from 80/85 to be quoted at 10/15 this morning, while the 9.5% notes due 2018 were also hit hard as they fell from 102/103 to 45/50 this morning, according to sources. 
Some sources comment they cannot remember seeing a 70 plus point fall in a single day, and that the market is now pricing in a near certain default. Others comment that such moves were seen in the early 2000s but admit that such dramatic one-day moves are, at best, extremely rare. The only other main mover sources have mentioned is&nbsp;Thomas Cook, which shed up to 50 points in a day following a profit warning in late 2011, according to some sources, though others suggest the moves were more like 30 points.
	
								 
The freefall in the Phones 4U’s notes come despite a conference call yesterday where the company confirmed it still expected to pay the next coupon on the toggle in cash. This had no impact, with traders commenting there is little liquidity in the name now, with no one willing to step in to catch a falling knife. 
Moreover, buysiders add that the moves reflect the fact the PIK-notes are deeply subordinated, and can fall to zero. They add that should the loss of the contract impact EBITDA by more than forecast then leverage could become unsustainable, and a debt restructuring could ensue. In such a scenario, value would break at the senior unsecured level, making the PIK-toggle notes essentially worthless, sources add.
								
									 
As reported, the catalyst was news that its network agreement with Vodafone will not be renewed. For the last twelve month period the Vodafone contract was worth almost &pound;20 million of EBITDA and over &pound;200 million of revenue, according to sources, making the loss of the contract from February 2015 a notable blow to the company. Worth noting that its full-year 2013 results showed underlying EBITDA of &pound;105 million, which was down 15.7% year-on-year. 
Phones 4U operates a network of stores across the U.K., and BC Partners owns a 91% stake in the company, with management holding the rest.