TCS and Cloudera partner up TCS and Cloudera partner up India-based IT services and consulting firm Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) announced Tuesday (August 26, 2014) its partnership with Cloudera (US-based provider of enterprise analytic data management solutions) to see to the certification of TCS' global team of Big Data experts through the Cloudera Certified Professional (CCP) programme. In addition to, TCS' products receive validation via the Cloudera Certified Technology Program (CCTP). Cloudera solutions in this area are based on Apache Hadoop and the CCTP is a means for users considering the purchase and implementation of certain Apache Hadoop platforms and applications to verify that they have been tested, validated and certified to work with a Cloudera enterprise data hub. TCS offers customers a comprehensive set of Big Data service offerings-including strategic planning, use case identification, infrastructure setup and management, application development and maintenance, testing, advanced analytics and predictive modeling-which have been put together to help customers adopt and maximise their use of Cloudera Enterprise data hubs. Why this partnership and why the focus on Hadoop? "In our client engagements and market research, we find that Big Data is playing a central role in helping enterprises reimagine their businesses. Hadoop is fast becoming the platform of choice for Big Data analytics," said TCS Digital Enterprise's Global Head Dr Satya Ramaswamy. "We have seen Cloudera's pioneering contributions to the Hadoop ecosystem right from 2008 and have been partnering with them in several client engagements across several industries in the last few years...[and] we are excited about our partnership with Cloudera in bringing cost effective Big Data analytics to our customers around the world by combining TCS' deep domain knowledge, Big Data products and engineering strength with Cloudera's Hadoop distribution, innovation and expertise." "By working with TCS, customers can be confident that they have the right foundation and capabilities to reach success," added Cloudera CEO Tom Reilly. "TCS has invested in Cloudera by forming the world's largest group of Cloudera Certified Professionals, while also developing capabilities on Cloudera Enterprise. Together, we have a strong track record of delivering results to customers on their Big Data journey."