Be Aware: Many Asset Protection Specialists Aren't Be Aware: Many Asset Protection Specialists Aren't Everyone wants to work with a top-notch professional. There are many professionals that are just not up to the job of delivering viable advanced planning strategies. This is especially true in the field of asset protection planning. 
“We repeatedly see the exceptionally wealthy pitched asset protection strategies. Some of the strategies are useful, but most of them are just ways for the promoters to gauge the wealthy,” explains Evan Jehle, partner at Flynn Family Office, “What’s painfully clear is that most professionals holding themselves out as asset protection specialists have a little knowledge, at best. There have been quite a few times we’ve had to extensively restructure a wealthy client’s situation in order to undo the problems the supposed asset protection specialist set up and then make sure the proper strategies are implemented.”
	
								 
In a survey of 227 self-identified asset protection attorneys, few of them were indeed knowledgeable about many asset protection strategies. Only about a sixth said they were leading authorities on the subject. Furthermore, about three-quarters admitted they need to become more knowledgeable with respect to asset protection strategies. 
Many of these self-identified asset protection attorneys were not abreast of some of the more common strategies in the field. They were knowledgeable concerning the more basic asset protection strategies such as corporate structures, the use of partnerships and qualified retirement plans. However, most were not knowledgeable about the more esoteric asset protection strategies such as domestic and offshore self-settled trusts, using life insurance and equity stripping.
								
									 
Just because a professional proclaims expertise in advanced planning, this might not be the case. Individuals need to consider numerous factors in order to effectively evaluate the technical competence of an asset protection specialist or any advanced planner, including:  
 
 Educational background. 
 Professional experience. 
 Professional licenses and designations. 
 Association with industry organizations. 
 Publications and speaking engagements. 
 Recognition from peers in the financial and legal communities. 
 
According to Frank Seneco, president of the advanced planning boutique, Seneco &amp; Associates, Inc. “From a technical perspective, many of the very best advanced planners are knowledge entrepreneurs. They’re at the cutting-edge of their field, contributing to its advancement. Moreover, they’re very willing to share their expertise and insights with their peers.” Preferably, the asset protection specialist you engage is not only technically adept by a knowledge entrepreneur.