Social Security Q&A: Should My Lower Earning Spouse Claim Early Retirement Benefits and then Switch to Spousal Benefits at FRA? Social Security Q&A: Should My Lower Earning Spouse Claim Early Retirement Benefits and then Switch to Spousal Benefits at FRA? Social Security may be your largest or one of your largest assets. How you manage it, by deciding which benefits to collect and when, can make an absolutely huge difference to your lifetime benefits. And those with the highest past covered earnings have the most to gain from maximizing their Social Security. 
I’ve been answering questions and writing columns about Social Security each week for the past two years on PBS NEWSHOUR’s website. The editors at Forbes asked me to post a Q&amp;A each day from those columns. To see all my columns, please go to my software company’s site, www.maximizemysocialsecurity.com, and click More Press below the WSJ quote.
	
								 
Today’s question asks if it’s best for a lower earning spouse to claim early retirement benefits when eligible for Medicare and then file for spousal benefits at FRA. The answer is contingent on the higher earner’s maximum age of life as well as the discount rate applied to future benefits. 
Question: I am almost 66 and my wife is 54. I make about five times what she makes. My plan is to start drawing Social Security at age 70. When my wife is 65 and eligible for Medicare she would take early retirement, then at full retirement age (FRA) draw a spousal benefit. Then assuming she outlives me, she would be able to draw my Social Security check. Is this the best arrangement?
								
									 
Answer: No, Joe. You probably want to have your wife take Medicare at 65, but wait until 66 to collect her full spousal benefit. If she takes her retirement benefit at 65, she’ll get her excess, not her full spousal benefit. And her excess spousal benefit could well be negative. She should collect just her full spousal benefit starting at 66 and then go for her own retirement benefit at 70. However, if at 70, her full spousal benefit exceeds her retirement benefit inclusive of the delayed retirement credit, her check won’t go up at 70 because she’ll get the larger of her full spousal benefit or her own augmented retirement benefit. 
However, Social Security will describe the check as her receiving her augmented retirement benefit plus an excess spousal benefit. In other words, they will redefine her full spousal benefit as her own retirement benefit (inclusive of the delayed retirement credits) plus an excess spousal benefit defined as her full spousal benefit less her own augmented retirement benefit. 
The above scenario assumes you have a high maximum age of life. If you expect, based on your own condition, to die before, say, 85, the advice may differ. It will also differ if you use a high discount rate in the valuation. If you are sure you will kick relatively young, it may behoove your wife to take her retirement benefit relatively early even if it wipes out her spousal benefit. Run yourself through a software program you trust to see what’s really best.