Teaming Up To Become A Thought Leader Teaming Up To Become A Thought Leader Becoming a thought leader is an exceptionally powerful way for professionals to build a substantial high-net-worth business. However, the effort and resources required to become a thought leader can be considerable. Consequently, there’s always the option of teaming up. Increasingly professionals in different fields are cooperating with each other in order to become thought leaders focused on the affluent and centers of influence. 
This situation neatly exemplifies the benefits of this approach: a property and casualty agent formed a joint venture with a security specialist to provide thought leadership to their communities on the protection of primary and vacation homes. They ran seminars for a number of audiences, such as real estate brokers, who in turn provided them with access to wealthy homeowners. This arrangement proved very successful in garnering new affluent clients for both of them.
	
								 
“High-impact thought leadership initiatives can be very complex undertakings,” says Hannah Shaw Grove, author of ten books on the high-net-worth markets and executive editor of Private Wealth magazine. “So having one or more partners can make the process much more manageable.” You can team up with other professionals, organizations or both. Depending on your objectives and your budget, teaming up can be quite practical but it’s important to ensure that you are maximizing the opportunity for yourself regardless of the number of collaborators. 
To make this really work, you need to be very clear about what you’re bringing to the venture and what the other partners can contribute. “Thought leadership programs are built on fresh and innovative content, product and service expertise, and distribution to specific, desired audiences,” explains Grove. “Everything has a currency in the world of business, you just have to find the partners who have what you need and who need what you have.”
								
									 
You should also understand the division of labor and costs before proceeding, and be explicit about the strategic value each party has and how it can be shared. Some of the questions you want to consider include the following:  
 
 How can each party benefit from the brand of the other? 
 What distribution capabilities does each party possess? 
 How can the expertise of the two parties be integrated? 
 What capabilities does each party have concerning the development of intellectual capital? 
 How can both parties work cooperatively to convert the intellectual capital into thought leadership content? 
 What other resources can each party contribute to the undertaking? 
 
As with any joint venture, you will need to be attentive to a number of issues such as: 
 
 The crediting of the thought leadership content, which is tied to the way you can make it part of your brand. 
 The ownership of the intellectual capital and thought leadership content. 
 The limitations on the use of the thought leadership content, including with whom you can use it. 
 The ability to upgrade the intellectual content and thought leadership content independently or with a different professional or organization. 
 
As becoming a thought leader can dramatically, positively transform your practice it might mean you need to team up with another professional to lower the barriers to entry and help make it a reality. “I’ve developed dozens of these kinds of programs over the years with partners that ranged from community leaders to big media personalities and from political pundits to Ivy League schools,” says Grove. “Each situation is a unique strategic partnership that is colored by the personalities of the parties involved. Establishing clear ground rules and a process upfront can significantly increase the likelihood of success.”