8 Things Masha Gessen Got Wrong About Russian Demography 8 Things Masha Gessen Got Wrong About Russian Demography Masha Gessen, a well-known Russian journalist and pundit, recently wrote a summary of Russian population trends&nbsp;for the New York Review of Books. As one of a very small number of people who closely follow Russian demography, and as someone who would like the issue to receive more attention, I was extremely disappointed. Gessen’s article is so littered with factual errors that it would actually subtract from a non-specialist’s knowledge of the topic: someone who knew nothing about Russian demography before reading the article would end up believing a number of things that are not true. 
I have no interest in engaging in a lengthy or ad-hominum attack on Gessen. What I would like to do, however, is point out the factual errors in the column so that people might have a modestly better understanding of the issues at play.
	
								 
Gessen:  

 “After 1989, however, it fell and still has not recovered: despite financial inducements introduced by the Putin government, the Russian fertility rate stands at 1.61, one of the lowest in the world (the US fertility rate estimate for 2014 is 2.01, which is also below replacement but still much higher than Russia’s).”
								
										
 
There are several errors here, so let’s unpackage them one at a time. First, Gessen tries to ignore the recovery in Russia’s fertility rate (“it fell and still has not recovered”) but if you look over the past few decades the improvements in recent years are actually a lot more impressive. Here’s what it looks like graphically: 
 
Gessen, for some reason, decided to provide out of date and inaccurate data for both Russia and US fertility, data that exaggerate the difference between the two. Russia’s fertility rate isn’t 1.61 (it was 1.71 in 2013) and the United States’ &nbsp;wasn’t 2.01 (it was 1.87&nbsp;in 2013). The gap between Russian and American fertility has been progressively closing&nbsp;for the past 15 years and it’s likely that it will close even further over the next few years. 
There’s also the bit about Russia in comparative perspective. Fortunately or unfortunately, depending on your view of fertility, Russia’s birth rate is simply not that strange. Purely as a factual matter, it’s not&nbsp;one of “the lowest in the world.” Here is a list of the countries that, in 2012, had lower total fertility rates than Russia:&nbsp;Bosnia and Herzegovina, Portugal, Singapore, South Korea, Poland, Spain, Serbia, Greece, Hungary, Slovak Republic, Germany, Italy, Japan, Thailand, Macedonia, Austria, Latvia, Czech Republic, Cuba, Moldova, Cyprus, Lebanon, Bulgaria, Croatia, Switzerland, Romania, Ukraine, Estonia, Luxembourg, Slovenia, and Lithuania. That’s more than 30 countries, including a huge swath of the European Union. As if that wasn’t enough, there are another 10-15 countries (including China!) whose fertility rates are so close to Russia’s as to be indistinguishable.
										
										 
Gessen: 

 “With the exception of two brief periods—when Soviet Russia was ruled by Khrushchev and again when it was run by Gorbachev—death rates have been inexorably rising”
 
This, inexcusably, leaves out the large and sustained decrease in death rate over the past decade. Here’s what it looks like when depicted graphically. See if you think this looks like an “inexorable rise” 
 
Gessen: 

 And then there are the deaths from external causes—again going from bad to worse.
 
Gessen has for some reason again decided to totally ignore the substantial improvement registered over the past decade. Russians have been dying&nbsp;much less frequently&nbsp;from external causes than they used to. Things haven’t gone from bad to worse they’ve gone from “nightmarish” to “still really bad”. Put simply, if you imagine that Russian deaths from external causes have been on a steady upward trajectory you are imagining an alternate reality. 
 
Gessen: 

 Another major clue to the psychological nature of the Russian disease is the fact that the two brief breaks in the downward spiral coincided not with periods of greater prosperity but with periods, for lack of a more data-driven description, of greater hope
 
This is true only if you&nbsp;totally ignore the past ten years when life expectancy has grown rapidly. Indeed Russian life expectancy is currently at an&nbsp;all time high. Objectively, a&nbsp;Russian born in 2014 can, on average, expect to live longer than a Russian born during either of the two “periods of hope” to which Gessen refers. &nbsp;&nbsp; 
 
Gessen: 

 Is it also possible that other post-Soviet states, by breaking off from Moscow, have reclaimed some of their ability to hope, and this is why even Russia’s closest cultural and geographic cousins, such as Belarus and Ukraine, aren’t dying off as fast?
 
In reality Ukraine has been “dying off” faster than Russia every single year since 1995. And this gap has been growing, not shrinking. 
 
If the above graph doesn’t convince you, also consider that, in 2012, two of Russia’s post-Soviet neighbors, Latvia and Lithuania, saw more rapid rates of natural population decline than did Russia. So did famously reformist Poland. After under-performing during the 1990′s, Russia is currently one of the better performing countries in post-communist eastern Europe. Numerous other countries that have made much more progress in political reform now have long-term demographic outlooks that are substantially&nbsp;worse&nbsp;than Russia’s. 
As I hope the above demonstrates, there is&nbsp;no relationship whatsoever&nbsp;between a country’s “ability to hope” and its demographic stability. The Orange revolution did nothing to improve Ukraine’s demography, just as Russia’s gradual political retrenchment has done nothing to worsen its fertility and mortality trends. Some of the most demographically unstable countries in the world are boring social democracies like Germany, while some of the most demographically ascendant are horrible dictatorships like Saudi Arabia. Indeed the most catastrophic years of Russia’s population decline coincide precisely with Russia’s most intense period of economic and political reform. 
  Contra Gessen, there is simply no mystery as to why Russia’s recent “period of greater prosperity” has not resulted in an improvement to the country’s demographic outlook. It has&nbsp;resulted in an improvement to the demographic outlook!&nbsp;&nbsp;The economic improvements of the past fifteen years have had an&nbsp;obvious and highly positive impact on Russia’s most basic demographic trends. Regardless of what you think of Vladimir Putin and his “vertical of power,” the simple fact is that Russia has seen a substantial and long-term improvement in the health of its population and pretending otherwise doesn’t help anyone.&nbsp;  
Follow me on Twitter @MarkAdomanis or on Facebook&nbsp;