Early movers: TOL, CVS, NFLX, VOD & more Early movers: TOL, CVS, NFLX, VOD & more 
				Getty Images
				Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange in New York.
	
	
																
			
									  Check out which companies are making headlines before the bell:    Toll Brothers—The home builder reported quarterly profit of 53 cents per share, eight cents above estimates, with revenue above forecasts as well. Toll benefited from selling more homes at higher prices.  Navistar–The truck maker posted a much smaller than expected quarterly loss, though revenue came in below forecasts. Navistar was helped by a rebound in commercial market demand, and is predicting its 2014 truck deliveries will come in at the upper end of its prior predictions.  CVS Caremark–CVS is changing its corporate name to CVS Health, following a seven month process aimed at removing tobacco products from its stores.   Lumber Liquidators–Wedbush upgraded the flooring retailer's stock to "outperform" from "neutral", saying the worst of the company's supply chain and competitive issues are behind it.   U.S. Steel, Steel Dynamics–The two steel makers are Morgan Stanley's top picks in a report raising its view of the steel industry to "attractive."  The change is based on both structural and cyclical improvements.   Netflix–The streaming media giant has reached a deal with Warner Brothers to become the exclusive on-demand provider for the TV series "Gotham."   Nokia–The company is releasing new free mapping apps for consumers, trying to compete with similar services from Google and Apple. Nokia said they would be released before the end of the year, and that unlike competitive products, they will work without an internet connection.   Vodafone–Japan's Nikkei newspaper is reporting that the mobile operator may be a takeover target for Japan's SoftBank.   Helen of Troy–The company cut its forecast for the year, after the personal care and household products maker warned of weakness across all its segments. The company does say it has identified strategies it feels will improve its longer-term results.   Concur Technologies–Concur is exploring a sale of the company, according to Bloomberg. The travel management company is said to have approached Oracle and SAP about buying it, although Oracle declined to consider the purchase.   JPMorgan Chase–The bank was upgraded to "buy" from "neutral" at Nomura Securities, which downgraded Bank of America to "neutral" from "buy" at the same time. The ratings changes were based largely on each bank's ability to deal with new capital requirements.   Wet Seal–CEO John Goodman has left his post at the women's apparel retailer, to be replaced by Edmond Thomas. Thomas was most recently a partner at private equity firm KarpReilly.    —By CNBC's Peter Schacknow   Questions? Comments? Email us at marketinsider@cnbc.com 