China official PMI falls to 51.1 in August China official PMI falls to 51.1 in August 
				Kevin Frayer | Getty Images
				A Chinese female construction worker works at the building site of a new apartment complex in Beijing, China.
	
	
																
			
									  The pace of activity in China's vast manufacturing sector slowed in August, government data released Monday showed.   The official purchasing managers' index (PMI) came in at 51.1 in August, a tad below expectations for a reading of 51.2 and down from a 27-month high of 51.7 in July. It remains above the 50-mark which separates expansion from contraction.   The final reading of HSBC's flash manufacturing PMI for August is due later Monday. The flash reading came in at a three-month low of 50.3.    Read More'Perfect storm' tohit China economy in 2016   There was little reaction in Asian stock markets outside of Australia. Sydney shares widened their gains to 0.5 percent, hitting a more than one-week high, while the Australian dollar barely moved.   The figures follow a slew of disappointing economic data – from manufacturing to credit growth – over the past month despite a burst of government stimulus measures to support the economy.  Last week, the Bank of America Merrill Lynch said the Chinese government has launched a "fresh round of mini-stimulus" to counter growth headwinds, giving banks a larger re-lending quota at lower rates to support the farm sector.   Read MoreDid China just announce a new mini-stimulus package?   But analysts say using stimulus to artificially prop up the world's second largest economy isn't sustainable, especially amid signs of a slowdown in the country's key housing sector.     "They [China's policymakers] just keep putting bandages over the problems they have. When you try to solve problems with stimulus, that doesn't work - you just crash with too much sugar which you will eventually see in China," said Joe Magyer, senior analyst at The Motley Fool.   "We're now seeing the results of that - diminishing returns, productivity seems to be falling [and we're] starting to see softening in prices of real estate. It's really disconcerting, there are statistics that say around 20 percent of homes in China are vacant today... yet there are still more inventories coming online, he added.   Read MoreChina real-estate: A bubble bursting   China's home prices fell for a third straight month in July. The sector accounts for roughly 15 percent of gross domestic product (GDP) and directly affects other sectors such as banking and construction. The economy grew 7.5 percent in the second quarter after logging a 7.4 percent expansion in the three months before, the lowest pace in six quarters.   "But let me choose my words carefully - you're not going to see a doomsday kind of scenario in China but we're kidding if we say the 7.5 percent kind of growth is achievable. I don't think China can do these kind of 7.5 percent growth over the next 5-10 years," Magyer said. 