Europe opens mixed; data, Ukraine tensions eyed Europe opens mixed; data, Ukraine tensions eyed   European shares opened mixed on Monday as investors looked ahead to fresh data for the euro zone and contemplated ongoing events in eastern Ukraine.
									Symbol
																	Name
																	Price
																																	&nbsp;
																			Change
																																					%Change
																	Volume
									
			
			
																																																				
																		FTSE
																				
																				
																																						---
																						
																																											
																				
												
																																																									
																		DAX
																				
																				
																																						---
																						
																																											
																				
												
																																																									
																		CAC 40
																				
																				
																																						---
																						
																																											
																				
												
																																																									
																		IBEX 35
																				
																				
																																						---
																						
																																											
																				
												  Read MoreMarket movers—what's keeping traders up at night    Investors will closely watch new data for the euro zone with the European Central Bank (ECB) set to meet later in the week with many analysts now anticipating some sort of further monetary stimulus. A full breakdown of German gross domestic product (GDP) is due at 7 a.m. London time and a second reading of manufacturing PMI (purchasing managers' index) is expected for each euro zone nation.   "Analysts are quite split this week on what Thursday's ECB meeting will deliver. Some are tipping an ECB rate cut and others are eyeing a stimulus package, while the rest aren't expecting action just yet," Stan Shamu, a market strategist at IG Markets said in a morning note.   Read MoreInvestors eye ECB as Europe's health deteriorates   Meanwhile, fighting in eastern Ukraine continued over the weekend. Reports from Reuters say that pro-Russian separatists have been gaining ground on Ukrainian government forces, with the separatists claiming that they had fired on a Ukrainian vessel in the Azov Sea.    European Union leaders agreed on Saturday to plan for new economic sanctions against Moscow, while Russian President Vladimir Putin has called for talks on the "statehood" of southern and eastern Ukraine. Putin's words have been played down by his spokesperson, according to Reuters, with Russian leader not proposing to make parts of Ukraine officially independent.   Read MorePutin calls for talks on east Ukraine 'statehood'   In Asia on Monday, stock markets rose as a positive handover from Wall Street offset disappointing Chinese factory activity data. Beijing's official purchasing manager's index (PMI) for August came in at 51.1, below Reuters expectations for 51.2 and July's reading of 51.7.    Read MoreChinese twin PMIs confirm factory downturn   In the U.S. on Friday, the S&amp;P 500 logged another record finish, enjoying its best August in 14 years, after the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan's final take on consumer sentiment rose to 82.5 in August from 81.8 the month before.   Back in Europe, carmaker Renault and U.K. housing company Berkeley both release fresh earnings figures.   Follow us on Twitter: 
 @CNBCWorld 