U.S. Rebukes Israel Over West Bank Land Appropriation U.S. Rebukes Israel Over West Bank Land Appropriation                                RONEN ZVULUN / Reuters
                                                  1 hours                                                                             
						                                                                   Israeli women walk in a Jewish settlement known as &quot;Gevaot&quot;, in the Etzion settlement bloc, near Bethlehem August 31, 2014. Israel announced on Sunday a land appropriation in the occupied West Bank that an anti-settlement group termed the biggest in 30 years and a Palestinian official said would cause only more friction after the Gaza war. Some 400 hectares (988 acres) in the Etzion settlement bloc near Bethlehem were declared &quot;state land, on the instructions of the political echelon&quot; by the military-run Civil Administration. Construction of a major settlement at the location has been mooted by Israel since 2000. Last year, the government invited bids for the building of 1,000 housing units at the site. REUTERS/Ronen Zvulun (WEST BANK - Tags: POLITICS SOCIETY)                                                                   
					                                                                          Israel announced a land appropriation in the occupied West Bank that an anti-settlement group termed the biggest in 30 years, drawing a U.S. rebuke. Some 988 acres in the Etzion Jewish settlement bloc near Bethlehem were declared &quot;state land, on the instructions of the political echelon&quot; by the military-run Civil Administration on Sunday. &quot;We urge the government of Israel to reverse this decision,” a State Department official said in Washington, calling the move &quot;counterproductive&quot; to efforts to achieve a two-state solution between Israel and the Palestinians.Israel Radio said the step was taken in response to the kidnapping and killing of three Jewish teens by Hamas militants in the area in June. The notice published on Sunday by the Israeli military gave no reason for the land appropriation decision. Peace Now, which opposes Israeli settlement activities in the West Bank, territory the Palestinians seek for a state, said the appropriation was meant to turn a site where 10 families now live adjacent to a Jewish seminary into a permanent settlement.
IN-DEPTHHamas Admits to Kidnapping and Killing Israeli TeensTeen Allegedly Beaten by Israeli Cops Back in U.S. Israeli Settlements in Hebron Hills Threaten Age-OId Livelihoods- Reuters