Labor Day Weekend Ending With More Rain and Wind Labor Day Weekend Ending With More Rain and Wind 
More severe weather is expected across parts of the country this Labor Day, with the Midwest under threat of 60 mph winds, golf ball-sized hail and possible tornadoes.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                Severe Weather Battering Holiday Plans
                                                                Charles Sykes/Invision/AP Photo
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
The holiday weekend has seen 162 reported storms from the Great Plains to the Northeast.

At a beach Sunday in the Bronx, New York, three men were struck by lightning. They were taken to the hospital but the extent of their injuries weren't released.

Rain and lightning also halted Labor Day weekend celebrations in Philadelphia, where the Made in America festival was evacuated because of stormy weather.

Crawford County, Iowa, officials told ABC News one person was struck by lightning and transported to the hospital. Parts of the state saw 80 mph winds, uprooting trees and knocking out power to thousands.

Sports weren't spared, either. Lightning stopped play at the U.S. Open tennis tournament.

Elise Amendola/AP PhotoPlay is suspended as storm clouds roll over the Billie Jean King National Tennis Center because of imminent lighting during the 2014 U.S. Open tennis tournament, Sunday, Aug. 31, 2014, in New York.



In Gainesville, Florida, lightning forced officials to suspend Saturday's game between the Florida Gators and Idaho Vandals.

Phil Sandlin/AP PhotoLightning strikes near Ben Hill Griffin Stadium at Florida Field during a weather delay before an NCAA college football game between Florida and Idaho in Gainesville, Fla., Saturday, Aug. 30, 2014. 



The Associated Press contributed to this story.