Friends Scare Off Men Trying to Kidnap College Student Friends Scare Off Men Trying to Kidnap College Student 
Police in New Hampshire continue to look for three men who tried kidnapping a college student as she walked home but were stopped by her friends.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                University of New Hampshire Student Nearly Abducted
                                                                ABCNews.com
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
The attempted abduction happened near the University of New Hampshire in Durham early Friday morning.

According to investigators, the woman told police she was walking home when three "military-looking" men pulled up in a tan, four-door sedan.

"It was an attempt to introduce themselves to her and when that seemed to fail, it was a little bit more aggressive," said Durham Police Chief David Kurz.

She told police two of the men grabbed her by the arm and tried throwing her inside the sedan's open trunk. The attempted kidnapping was foiled when her friends arrived and the men drove off.

The university alerted students about the abduction attempt the next day, ABC News affiliate WMUR-TV reported.

"It's pretty scary because we live around the corner," said student Morgan DiDonato.

"That could be me one day," added Cassandra Izzo, another student. "I could be walking by my friend's house and someone could try to pick me up."

The incident also has parents like Sherri Trocci worried with classes beginning Tuesday.

"It's a little disconcerting," she said. "We did some safety training. We did a little self-defense training before she came here. Hopefully, that will be in the back of her mind."

After the attempted abduction, several students told ABC News they downloaded the Live Safe app, which includes neighborhood safety reports and real-time sharing location with friends and police.