Europe set for higher open; data, Ukraine tensions in focus Europe set for higher open; data, Ukraine tensions in focus European shares are set to edge higher on Tuesday morning as investors continue to monitor events in eastern Ukraine and react to new economic data from the euro zone.According to IG, the FTSE is called up 3 points at 6,828, the German Dax is seen higher by 3 points at 9,481 and the French CAC  is seen up by 4 points at 4,383.Investors in Europe are set to regain some sort of direction on Tuesday with the U.S. markets reopening after a Monday's holiday. A euro zone producer price index for July is released at 10:00 a.m. London time, while construction data for the U.K. are released at 9:30 a.m. London time, and manufacturing data is also due out in the U.S. later in the session.With the U.S. shut on Monday, bourses in the U.K., Germany and France closed flat to lower after regional manufacturing activity for August fell to a 13-month low. That data, along with Tuesday's releases, will likely be closely watched by the European Central Bank as it prepares to hold a policy meeting this Thursday."For this week's meeting, we do not expect any actions. The tone at the press conference should remain dovish, with a likely downward revision of the growth/inflation forecasts," Barclays' analysts Giuseppe Maraffino and Fabio Fois said in a research note on Monday evening.   "We think the likelihood of QE (quantitative easing) has materially risen following the Jackson Hole speech, although it is not our base case scenario," they said.   Tensions over Ukraine and Russia remain in focus. Reuters reported that the European Union is working on contingencies if Moscow turns off the gas pipes in retaliation to additional sanctions. Separately, Ukraine has begun peace talks with pro-Russian separatists, who say they would be willing to remain as part of Ukraine if granted special status.   In Asia, equity markets kicked off trade mixed on Tuesday in the absence of a U.S. lead and as investors awaited the Reserve Bank of Australia's policy decision.   In Europe, there are no major earnings releases on Tuesday.   Follow us on Twitter: 
 @CNBCWorld 