Delta Flight Re-Routed Due to Passenger Disruption Delta Flight Re-Routed Due to Passenger Disruption 
A Delta flight from New York to Florida was re-routed Monday, the airline confirmed – the third flight diversion caused by passenger disruption in recent weeks.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                Battle Over Seat Space Heats Up With Another Mid-Air Fight
                                                                Getty Images
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
Delta Flight 2370 departed at about 7 p.m. Monday, en route to West Palm Beach. The flight was diverted to Jacksonville due to the disturbance.

“Out of an abundance of caution, the captain elected to divert to the closest airport,” the airline said in a statement. “Local law enforcement met the flight and removed the passenger.”

The flight continued on to West Palm Beach, arriving after 11 p.m.

Flight Diverted After Passengers Feud Over 'Knee Defender'

Legroom Wars: Plane Diverted After Reclining Seat Fight

Clashes over shrinking legroom contributed to two incidents last week. A Miami to Paris flight landed in Boston Wednesday after air marshals on the plane restrained a man who fought with a passenger trying to recline in front of him, a law enforcement source told ABC News.

That incident came days after a man on a United Airlines flight used a product called a Knee Defender to keep the seat in front of him from reclining. The woman in front, unable to recline, got into an argument with the man and reportedly threw a cup of water in his face. Both passengers were seated in United’s Economy Plus section, which gives fliers extra legroom for an extra fee.

The argument prompted the Newark, New Jersey-to-Denver flight to be diverted to Chicago, United Airlines confirmed, adding that the unidentified passengers were not allowed back on when the plane continued on to Denver.