More Storms Roll Through Midwest With Hail, Winds More Storms Roll Through Midwest With Hail, Winds 
 

More strong storms rumbled through the Midwest, with a tornado reported in Kansas and other places seeing heavy rains, large hail and strong winds.

The National Weather Service said a tornado was confirmed near Cedar Vale, Kansas, on Monday night. It also cited hail the size of pingpong balls.

As the line of storms moved east, the National Weather Service noted hail nearly 2 inches in diameter near St. Louis, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch reported. It said rain fell at a rate of nearly an inch per hour.

The weather service issued a flood warning for Dardenne Creek because of the 2 to 4 inches of rain since Monday evening, with up to an inch more forecast before dawn. Ameren said about 8,500 people were without power in Missouri. In Oklahoma, regulators said about 9,000 people had lost power near Tulsa.

The Detroit Free Press said two tornadoes hit earlier Monday in northern Michigan. Jim Keysor, a meteorologist with the National Weather Service, said they damaged property but caused no injuries. To the south, flooding closed some roadways.

A storm spotter was hospitalized in Iowa on Monday after he was struck by lightning while watching a system a night earlier that left swollen rivers, power outages, trees down and campers overturned. Crawford County Emergency Management Director Gregory Miller said the man was transferred to a Sioux City hospital where he was treated.

Winds of at least 70 miles an hour knocked down numerous trees and left limbs and other debris strewn about in Denison and Sergeant Bluff, where a few people were treated for minor injuries. Heavy rain estimated at about six inches in two hours caused flash flooding. Several highways were covered at various points during the storm.

About 70 residents of a neighborhood in Missouri Valley were evacuated after water from the overflowing Boyer River broke through a levee early Monday near U.S. Highway 30. A shelter was set up in the city of 2,700, but most people were staying with relatives or friends, Mayor Clint Sargent said.