The Japanese ink blot test: When a Bhakt and Hater see Modi photos The Japanese ink blot test: When a Bhakt and Hater see Modi photos 
					It&rsquo;s all in the eye of the beholder. Everything Narendra Modi does is analyzed, re-analyzed and sliced and diced. And the same holds true for India&rsquo;s son in the Land of the Rising Sun. Here&rsquo;s our take on how the diehard Modi-lovers and the diehard Modi-haters have been looking at his visit to Japan. Some of the captions are inspired by comments from Modi&rsquo;s fans and foes on his Facebook page and on Twitter. The extra wasabi kick added to them is all ours.&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Modi-ji proves there is no colour he is afraid of.
Modi Hater: Narendra Modi signals U-turn on the &ldquo;pink revolution&rdquo;.&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Narendra Modi brings mighty Japan to its knees as he reminds them the vajrasana came from India.
Modi Hater: Narendra Modi reminds everyone about his chaiwalla days. Again!&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Mr Obama, your turn next. Don&rsquo;t mess with us, dude.
Modi Hater: Narendra Modi-ji adopts young black child in Japan to take to US at the end of September and reunite with his parents at an emotional ceremony in Madison Square Garden.&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt : A school of fish in Japan thank the Indian prime minister for saving them from becoming sushi.
Modi Hater: The PM is up to fishy business in Japan.&nbsp;
Modi Bhakt: South-East Asian tourists in search of acchey din travel to Japan for glimpse of the beloved Indian prime minister.
Modi Hater: Narendra Modi mistakes Thai tourists for Ladakhis.&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Modi-ji gets rare unprecedented once-in-a-lifetime only-for-you Obama-didn&rsquo;t-get-it private-exclusive-historic audience with the head priest.Modi Hater: Head priest of Kinkaku-ji temple tries to tell Modi in quiet moment that he is disappointed he did not bring his Ladakhi robes.&nbsp;Modi Bhakt:&nbsp;Drumming up business with an Indo-Japan jugalbandi
Modi Hater: Is that a chhappan inch drum? The PM beats his own drum as usual.&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Narendra Modi hailed as avatar of Krishna in the land of the Rising Sun.
Modi Hater: Narendra Modi tries to pass himself off as avatar of Krishna in the Land of the Rising Sun&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Elementary schoolchildren astounded as Modi-ji sings their favourite folk song in impeccable Japanese and reveals it&rsquo;s really a story about Lord Krishna.Modi Hater: Japanese schoolchildren look depressed as they are forced to play Vande mataram on their flutes to entertain the visiting Indian Prime Minister.&nbsp;&nbsp;Modi Bhakt: Narendra Modi plucks the strings of Indian-Japanese friendship in 2012.
Modi Hater: Coming soon. The Music of Narendra Modi on koto, drums and flute. To be broadcast to all schools every Guru Utsav from 6-7 AM. Attendance mandatory.