The Twitter account blowing the Internet's mind The Twitter account blowing the Internet's mind 
				Tetra Images | Getty Images
		
	
																
			
									  Ever wonder how camouflage is put on a helmet? How exactly do braces straighten teeth? What does it take to make a hot dog?   Life's most puzzling questions are now being answered in the form of GIFs by a new Twitter account called 
 @ThingsWork, which promises to satisfy your curiosity with amazing new perspectives on how things work.   The account, appropriately named "How Things Work," already has more than 100,000 followers after posting 20 tweets that showcase soundless short looping videos shedding light on how products are made or operate.   Its most popular tweet, with 25,000 retweets, takes you inside the mouth of a teenager whose teeth badly need braces. With the help of a time-lapse sequence, a viewer sees just how the thin metal helps straighten those pearly whites.   
 Viral braces tweet   Another tweet dropping jaws explains how a key works. You've turned one countless times in your life, but what exactly is happening inside the lock? This GIF, shared more than 15,000 times, has you covered.   One of its more recent posts shows how a machine creates wired fence. "I could watch this forever," wrote follower @calnasty. Read More  140 things you don't know about Twitter   So who is behind the latest Internet craze? The bio does not mention a creator's name, nor do the tweets.   The Twitter account is following 17 other immensely popular accounts, including @WeirdHistoryPix, @CuteAnimalVines and @NoContextAds, which all sprouted in an attempt to rack up hundreds of thousands of retweets and favorites—the Twitter currency needed to attain social media stardom.   Once an account takes off, the owner will often cash in from advertisers eager to promote their messages to hundreds of thousands of people. One can imagine big brands interested in revealing to @ThingsWork's followers how a doughnut is made or how the plumbing inside a house works.   There is a slippery slope for advertisers, though. The content being shared by @ThingsWork is likely content it does not own, as many of the GIFs being displayed have been floating around the Internet for years. For a brand to place itself alongside stolen content is not a great buy, no matter how many eyeballs it reaches.   For now, followers are in awe, even if most of the Internet isn't exactly sure how the Internet works anyway.   
 How Popcorn Pops Tweet —By CNBC's Eli Langer