Check Out the Workshop Lineup at SMX Social Media Marketing – Best Rates Available Now Check Out the Workshop Lineup at SMX Social Media Marketing – Best Rates Available Now 
								
							
							
							Attend a comprehensive workshop conducted by leading experts in internet marketing on November 18, immediately preceding SMX Social Media Marketing November 19-20 in Las Vegas.
Workshop topics: 
Marketing Land’s Social Media Marketing Boot Camp: The editors of Marketing Land will get you up to speed with traffic and revenue-driving tactics, and provide the context you’ll need to get the most out of the SMX Social agenda. 
Social Content Distribution for SEO: The New Link Building: Learn how to combine your paid and organic efforts to improve your distribution results. Master social PR for SEO, deploy multi-channel psychographic targeting, and more.
In-house Social Media Exchange: Dedicated entirely to in-house social media marketers and community managers, this unique event will present you with an opportunity to learn and share unlike any other. Discuss your challenges, gain solutions, and share tactics with others like you in the trenches. 
Content Marketing Accelerator: Experiencing writers block? Overcome content creation, promotion, and distribution hurdles. Learn how to create, implement and sustain a successful content marketing program. 
Advanced AdWords Training: Boost your paid campaign ROI with a full day of best practices and advanced strategies. From keyword research, to writing compelling ad copy, expanding your reach through various targeting methods, we have you covered.
Register Now and Save!
You save when you register for SMX Social Media Marketing and any of the workshops. Take advantage of super early bird rates for $600 off a combination pass. 
Just want to attend the main conference? Or go to a workshop? Sure, you can do that too. 
Want to send a team of 3 or more? You save an additional 15-35% with our team rates.
Don’t delay! Super early bird rates expire next Friday, September 12. Register today!
							
							
							Some opinions expressed in this article may be those of a guest author and not necessarily Search Engine Land. Staff authors are listed here.
							
							
							
	
				
	

				
							(Some images used under license from Shutterstock.com.)