5 Things to Know This Morning 5 Things to Know This Morning 
Your look at the five biggest and most buzz-worthy stories of the morning.

                                        
                                        
                                    
                                            
                                            Getty Images
                                        
                            
                        
                        
1. FBI Is 'Addressing' Massive Celebrity Photo Hack

The FBI said it is "aware" that someone has leaked nude photos purporting to be pictures of dozens of A-list celebrities including Jennifer Lawrence and Kate Upton and is "addressing the matter."

The feds made its statement as celebrities were outraged over the hacked photos.

The statements came in response to the release of photos purportedly of dozens of celebrities in various states of undress. The photos first appeared on an image sharing site called 4chan.

It's not clear how the photos were obtained or whether they are all genuine.

2. Delta Flight Re-Routed Due to Passenger Disruption

A Delta flight from New York to Florida was re-routed Monday, the airline confirmed – the third flight diversion caused by passenger disruption in recent weeks.

Delta Flight 2370 departed at about 7 p.m. Monday, en route to West Palm Beach. The flight was diverted to Jacksonville due to the disturbance.

“Out of an abundance of caution, the captain elected to divert to the closest airport,” the airline said in a statement. “Local law enforcement met the flight and removed the passenger.”

The flight continued on to West Palm Beach, arriving after 11 p.m.

3. Survivor Lead Singer Jimi Jamison Dead at 63

Jimi Jamison, the lead singer of the rock band Survivor, has died, the band announced. Jamison was 63.

“Survivor is very shocked & saddened by the passing of our brother Jimi Jamison,” the band wrote on its Twitter page. “Our thoughts, love & prayers go out to his friends and family.”

Jamison contributed to a string of 1980s hits – “I Can’t Hold Back,” “High on You” and “The Search Is Over,” as well as “Burning Heart,” which was featured in the movie “Rocky IV.”

4. $2.4B Revel Casino Shuts Down After Just 2 Years

It opened with a bang one day at dawn a little over 2 years ago amid high hopes it would turn around Atlantic City's struggling casino market.

But the $2.4 billion Revel Casino Hotel went out with a whimper in the wee small hours of the morning Tuesday as its casino closed a day after the hotel checked out its last guest.

The property that debuted at sunrise on April 2, 2012, with its then-president joining New Jersey Lt. Gov. Kim Guadagno in a blueberry smoothie toast quietly ended its operations as the last handful of gamblers, who never turned out in great enough numbers to keep Revel alive, filed out of the sleek glass tower.

"When I started, it was promising. We had high hopes," said Liditze Diaz, a restaurant worker at Revel. "Then we started hearing rumors, but I thought, 'No way this place is going to close. It's too new, too pretty.' It's hard to believe."

5. Snoop Dogg Drops in on Chicago Couple's Wedding

Two newlyweds in Chicago got a unique wedding photo Sunday, when Snoop Dogg dropped in and crashed their nuptials.

A photographer for Allusion Photography, which had shot the wedding ceremony at the Hard Rock Hotel Chicago, spotted the rapper as he stepped out of a limo, according to the photography studio's president, Sherry Hagerman.

The groom's mother, Mary Rose Frank, told the photographer "she was Snoop's biggest fan," and the photographer convinced the artist's entourage to make the introduction, Hagerman said.

"They had a great conversation and a ton of laughs inside the bar," she said. "Snoop was a blast to be around."