IMF's Zhu: Ukraine 'on track' with loan obligations IMF's Zhu: Ukraine 'on track' with loan obligations   The International Monetary Fund's deputy manager director told CNBC this week that Ukraine was on track with conditions of the loan program by the organization.   On Friday, the IMF signed off on its first review of Ukraine's $17 billion loan program first unveiled in May, and released $1.4 billion in fresh funds. However, the body warned of looming risks should the tensions escalate between Ukraine and Russia.   "Overall, I think the program is on track, and we're working closely with the government to ensure that the program will be on track," said Zhu Min, deputing managing director of the IMF.   Read MoreIMF cuts global growth outlook as US recovery falters   Ukraine has been in turmoil since anti-government protests resulted in the overthrow of President Viktor Yanukovych in February, and conflict with pro-Russian separatists escalated this year following Russia's bloodless annexation of Crimea in March.   Its economy has suffered as a result and the IMF forecasts a contraction of between 6.5 and 7 percent this year, even as the Ukrainian government predicts a less severe 3 percent contraction. Ukraine's currency -the hryvnia - has plummeted 58 percent against the dollar year to date.   Zhu told CNBC Ukraine's weak economic fundamentals created additional challenges for the nation's debt reduction targets, and its fiscal and monetary policies. Kiev has said it needed $35 billion to pay its bills over the next two years, which the IMF package should mostly cover.   "Currently, political uncertainty and military uncertainty add risk for the recovery of the Ukraine economy as well," he said.
					
			    								
		
												
																
	
					
						
																													
																											

			
				Tomohiro Ohsumi | Bloomberg | Getty Images
		
	
																
			
									  Read MoreIMF warns Ukraine on bailout if it loses east   Zhu added that Ukraine was making good progress with most of its loan obligations, especially in facilitating economic reforms.   "The government is open to take on and carry out structural reforms to promote further growth. I think that's very important, for us to work together to ensure the program is on track continuously," he said.   Last week an IMF spokesperson told reporters at a press conference that Kiev was still falling short of meeting the targets on its state budget,the level of net international reserves at the central bank and the deficit of its state run oil and gas company Naftogaz, according to Reuters.   The IMF's two most recent programs with Ukraine in 2008 and 2010 went off track due to the government's failure to follow through with contentious issues such as raising gas prices.   Read MoreSanctions bring Russian growth to standstill: IMF   This time round, Kiev raised gas prices by 50 percent in an effort to secure the bailout.   Min also reiterated the IMF's view that Ukraine does need to restructure its debt.   "At this moment, I think the debt restructuring and the debt re-profiling are not on the table at all. I can make that very clear," he said. 