Man on Cross-Country Bike Trek to Propose Killed During Food Stop Man on Cross-Country Bike Trek to Propose Killed During Food Stop 
 

A Connecticut man on a cross-country bicycle trip to propose to his girlfriend was stabbed to death when he stopped at a McDonald's in Vero Beach, Fla., for a meal, police said.

Kevin Adorno, 28, of Farmington, Conn., was allegedly stabbed by a homeless man in the parking lot of the restaurant,         police told ABC affiliate WPFB-TV in West Palm Beach, Fla.

Rene Herrera Cruz, 59, was arrested late Monday night near the scene. Police said he ditched a bloody 12-inch blade used in the attack in a nearby bush.

Adorno had stopped at the McDonald's during his cross-country bicycle trip to charge his phone and get something to eat, the station reported. The young man had started his journey in Maryland, headed for Miami, when he was suddenly attacked.

"He happened to stop here in Vero Beach, grabbed a bite to eat, and was charging his cell phone," Police Chief David Currey told WPFB. "He got on the phone with his girlfriend, who we understand he was going to propose to be married. He was talking to her, and Mr. Cruz approached him in the parking lot and killed him."

Adorno owned a graphic design business, Bevy Promotions and Media, in Hartford, Conn.

Adorno was on the phone with his girlfriend when the attack occurred. Police said he was set to propose once he arrived in Miami.

"Cruz admitted to stabbing Adorno. He stated that he thought Adorno was directing other people via cell phone to attack him and Cruz therefore felt threatened and attacked Adorno," police said in a statement obtained by the station. 

"It was evident from the amount of blood that he had been stabbed several times in the chest and arm," the police statement said. "Although EMS and Fire Rescue also assisted in the attempts to save Adorno; he succumbed to his wounds and was pronounced deceased a short time later at the IRMH."

Joe Conrado, the owner and operator of the McDonald's where the killing occurred said he and the restaurant staff were cooperating with police in their investigation.