NATO Plans Rapid-Response Force to Thwart Russia NATO Plans Rapid-Response Force to Thwart Russia                                Sgt. Christina Dion / HANDOUT / EPA
                                                  1 hours                                                                             
						                                                                   epa04380764 A handout image dated 28 August 2014 and made available by U.S. Army Europe on 01 September 2014 showing  Paratroopers of Company A, 1st Battalion, 503rd Infantry Regiment, 173rd Airborne Brigade, waiting for helicopters to land and take them off the 'battlefield' of Haaslat Village at Hohenfels Training Area, Germany. Exercise Saber Junction 2014 includes participants from the U.S., NATO allies and European security partners, conducting unified land operations at the 7th Army's Joint Multinational Training Command's Hohenfels Training Area.  The exercise trains units in the simultaneous combination of offensive, defensive and stability operations while improving international interoperability, commitment to NATO and allied nations and strategic access to critical areas within the European Command's area of responsibility.  EPA/Sgt. Christina Dion / HANDOUT   EDITORIAL USE ONLY                                                                   
					                                                                          In a move that comes amid Cold War fears and references to World War II, NATO allies this week are expected to back the use of a rapid-reaction force that can swoop into hot spots in Eastern Europe. At a moment’s notice, 4,000 troops would be deployed within 48 hours into these troubled territories — a military maneuver supported by the former Soviet states feeling threatened by Russia.“We have to make sure the deterrence is strong enough so it will become unthinkable for Russia to go beyond (Ukraine),” Estonian Prime Minister Taavi Roivas told Reuters on Tuesday, referring to Moscow’s actions in Crimea and eastern Ukraine.The troops would come from NATO’s 28-member countries, and weapons and equipment would be stockpiled in Eastern Europe for easy access, officials first announced Monday. NATO is trying to preempt potential Russian aggression against former Soviet states, including Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania — all countries that President Barack Obama will meet with ahead of the NATO summit this Thursday and Friday. Clashes continue in Ukraine, where leaders say Russian President Vladimir Putin has allowed his soldiers to invade in the east and aid pro-Russian separatists. Putin continues to deny he is involved, even though NATO claims there is satellite evidence showing Russia’s military involvement in the country. Ukraine’s defense minister, Valeriy Heletey, also warned on Facebook that the fighting will likely escalate: “A great war has arrived at our doorstep, the likes of which Europe has not seen since World War II.”
IN-DEPTHShells Land Near Ukraine Checkpoint and 'Nobody Bats an Eyelid'Putin's Alleged Comments on Kiev 'Taken Out of Context': KremlinBaltic States Fear Putin Amid Escalation in UkraineSOCIAL— Erik Ortiz, with Reuters