The Social Climber: Maria Sharapova's Upset at the US Open The Social Climber: Maria Sharapova's Upset at the US Open 
Matthew Stockman/Getty ImagesMaria Sharapova's Upset at the Open

At the U.S. Open Sunday, Russian tennis pro Maria Sharapova lost in an upset to Danish player Caroline Wozniacki. Maybe it was the New York City summer heat. The match lasted two hours and 37 minutes in sticky weather that reached 87 degrees. Wozniacki won 6-4, 2-6, 6-2 and will play in her first Grand Slam quarterfinal in more than two years.PeopleAngelina Jolie's Wedding Dress Revealed

Actress Angelina Jolie and actor Brad Pitt wed secretly in France Aug. 23. The long-awaited photos have been published by People magazine for its Sept. 15, 2014, issue.  The bride wore a Versace gown and a veil with sewn images of their children's drawings.

First Photos From Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie's Wedding ReleasedJustin Sullivan/Getty ImagesApple May Enter Payments Business

Apple and American Express are getting into the iPhone payments system, according to unnamed sources cited by Recode.net. The tech website, which was the first media site to announce Apple's upcoming Sept. 9 event, said the company may announce its plans there, next week in Cupertino, California.

Customers may be able to use their iPhones as a credit card to make payments, according to Recode.

Apple did not respond to a request for comment.M. Spencer Green/AP PhotoIt's 'Back-to-School' for Much of America

The week after the long Labor Day weekend ushers students across the country back into classrooms. Parents are posting the hashtag "#backtoschool" with celebratory tweets.Darron Cummings/AP PhotoTennis Audience Sings 'Happy Birthday'

After defeating Aleksandra Krunic during the fourth round of the 2014 U.S. Open tennis tournament in New York, Belarusian Victoria Azarenka asked the audience to sing "Happy Birthday" to her "best friend." Gael Monfils, the Frenchman, turned 28 today and will play in the U.S. Open quarterfinals today.

"If you guys can help me please wish him happy birthday, it would mean so much to me," Azarenka asked the crowd as an interviewer held the mic. 
Some in the audience responded with cheers and the popular tune.

Azarenka's 'Happy Birthday' Wish