EU expected to unveil new Russian sanctions EU expected to unveil new Russian sanctions 
				Gleb Garanich | Reuters
				Ukrainian soldiers in the eastern town of Dzerzhinsk, near Donetsk, Aug. 28, 2014.
	
	
																
			
									  On Friday, the European Union is expected to decide new sanctions on Russia, reported newswires Tuesday citing sources.     The EU plans to expand defense sanctions to include service contracts, the reports by Dow Jones and Reuters said.    In a separate report, Reuters news agency said the new sanctions would be unveiled on Wednesday and adopted by Friday. It said the measures would make it harder for companies in Russia's state-dominated economy to obtain overseas financing.    Ambassadors will meet on Wednesday,Thursday and Friday to hone the new sanctions package.   Ukraine's acting U.K. ambassador, Andrii Kuzmenko, told CNBC on Wednesday that the country wanted to restore its territorial integrity and was therefore seeking military, technical and financial assistance as well as tougher sanctions against Russia.    "We definitely need something more strong which should be a means of protection," he said, mentioning air defense specifically. "We do feel very strong diplomatic, political support from the Western countries, from the European Union."  "We need to respond in thestrongest possible way," Italian Foreign Minister Federica Mogherini, who will be the EU's next foreign policy chief, told reporters following a presentation to EU lawmakers in the European Parliament on Tuesday.   Other measures discussed included banning syndicated EU loans to Russian government-owned banks and institutions.   The European Commission also proposed a shortening of the minimum maturity of Russian state-owned banks' debt instruments that cannot be sold in the EU under a decision from July to 30 days from the previously agreed 90 days.    After a lengthy briefing by Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko, who warned "full-scale war" was imminent if Russian troops continued an advance in support of pro-Moscow rebels, the EU leaders agreed on Sunday to have officials draw up a list of new measures that could hit a range of sectors within a week, according to Reuters. —By CNBC