Tiny invaders bring pain to popular Tokyo park Tiny invaders bring pain to popular Tokyo park TOKYO -- The Japanese capital's leafy Yoyogi Park boasts a running track,  amphitheater, bird sanctuary, cycling course, dog run, three  fountains, and it hosts a nonstop roster of festivals, concerts and flea  markets, drawing over five million visitors a year,  including many American tourists. But in recent days, the 133-acre oasis has been invaded by mosquitoes  carrying the dengue fever virus. The infestation has sparked Japan's  first domestic outbreak of the disease in nearly 70 years, when Japanese  Imperial Army soldiers brought it back  from battlefields in Southeast Asia in the early 1940s. According to  the Japanese Society of Travel Medicine, as many as 400,000 Japanese  contracted the illness during that decade -- but eradication programs had since wiped out the malady.Until the end of August, that is, when a few students practicing dance  routines in the park suddenly experienced signs of dengue fever, which is also  known as "break bone fever" for the painful symptoms it causes. Over the  last week, dozens more victims have appeared  as far away as Osaka and Aomori, but all were bitten in or around  Yoyogi. The patient list included a pair of young TV personalities who  were shooting a program in the park when they were infected. All have  recovered or are in stable condition.  Perhaps because the mosquitoes tend to be active during daylight hours,  none of the many homeless who sleep rough in the park at night have been  affected. Authorities have recommended they be moved to temporary  shelters anyway, until colder weather brings the  mosquito season to a close. Yoyogi Park remains open for business, but now is dotted with warning  signs, urging visitors to cover up exposed skin and apply liberal  amounts of insect repellent. Park staff in white Tyvek full body suits  spray foliage, fountains have been shut off, and ponds  drained. While a few joggers and dog walkers still ply the quiet paths,  parents and young children who used to frolic on the central lawn are  staying away. Not a single infected mosquito has been caught so far, but now white  nets have been set up throughout the park to gather samples at Yoyogi,  as well as at other city parks and cemeteries.  Initial optimism about a limited outbreak that would end with the first  frost has now turned to unease about a disease that once afflicted  only a handful of tropical countries, and now appears regularly in over  100. As many as 300 travelers bring the disease  back into Japan each year, a number that has been on the rise in recent  years.  Health and Welfare Minister Norihisa Tamura has said more cases could  surface, but he downplayed the possibility of an epidemic, urging calm.