Ukraine-Russia ceasefire seen boosting Wall Street Ukraine-Russia ceasefire seen boosting Wall Street   U.S. stock index futures and European indexes traded higher early on Wednesday, on reports of a "permanent cease-fire" between Russia and Ukraine.   "Mutual understanding was achieved concerning the steps which will enable the establishment of peace," the Ukrainian presidential press office said on Wednesday, following a telephone conversation between President Petro Poroshenko and Russian premier, Vladimir Putin.    Pro-Russian separatists have been battling Kiev's forces in the mainly Russian-speaking Donbass region, which is home to most of Ukraine's heavy industry and accounts for about 18 percent of the country's economic output.   However, a statement from a spokesman for Putin that denied a cease-fire agreement as Russia was not a party to the Ukraine conflict halted any gains in Europe.  Read MorePoroshenko's office: Cease-fire reached with Russia     The focus in the U.S. on Wednesday will be July factory orders, with August vehicle sales data also due to be released. The former are expected to show record growth of more than 10 percent on the month, with durable goods orders already known to have jumped by 22.6 percent in July, in part due to surging aircraft orders.    Domestic vehicle sales for July appear on track to have picked up further, and now stand at around pre-crisis levels.   Tool Brothers and Vince Holding  will report quarterly results before Wall Street opens, while H&amp;R Block and PVH will post numbers after markets close.    Samsung is due to launch its Galaxy Note 4 smartphone or phablet on Wednesday at simultaneous events in New York, Beijing and Berlin. This comes ahead of Apple's expected unveiling of the iPhone 6 next week.    Read MoreSamsung &amp; Microsoft's new phones 
					
			    								
		
												
																
	
					
						
																																																																						
																																						
																			
																																											
		
	

	                   	
				        		       			       			Play Video       		

				        	                      	          
	
				

																
			
									  U.S. stocks mostly fell on Tuesday, but the S&amp;P 500 held above 2,000 after hitting another intraday record. —By CNBC's Katy Barnato 