5 Things to Know This Morning: Password Protection 5 Things to Know This Morning: Password Protection 
Your look at the five biggest and most buzz-worthy stories of the morning.

                                        
                                        
                                    
                                            
                                            Getty Images
                                        
                            
                        
                        
1. What the Celebrity Photo Hacking Teaches Us About Protecting Our Passwords

The hackers who perpetrated the privacy breach on stars including Jennifer Lawrence and Kate Upton likely had a lot of time on their hands to spend targeting the digital lives of dozens of A-listers, experts said.

Robert Siciliano, a McAfee online security expert, told ABC News the hackers could have spent "minutes, hours, days, months or years" to get inside the celebrity accounts.

"That is what these people do. That is their life," Siciliano said. "They have nothing else to do other than try and get access to a celebrity’s mobile phone, because they can."

"The icing on the cake is that she has nude pictures," he said. "That’s the holy grail."

2. Dallas Cowboys Hoping to Sign Michael Sam

Michael Sam is slated to take a physical for the Dallas Cowboys Wednesday, with the team hoping to sign Sam to its practice squad, ESPN’s Adam Schefter reports.

Sam, who is seeking to become the first openly gay player in the NFL, was cut by the St. Louis Rams on Saturday.

Sam expressed excitement about his opportunity with the Cowboys in an interview with MailOnline.

“It’s been a roller coaster this past week, but I’m happy where I’m at now,” he said. “I’m just looking forward to being a Cowboy. My focus is on making the team.”

3. Joan Rivers Will 'Remain on Life Support,' Says Daughter

Joan Rivers remains in a New York City hospital and remains on "life support," her daughter Melissa said.

The comedic legend arrived at Mount Sinai Hospital on Thursday after an emergency call that she was in cardiac arrest.

Rivers has been unconscious since the 81-year-old arrived at the hospital and doctors had been keeping her sedated, under close observation.

"On behalf of my mother and our family, we are extremely grateful for all the love and support we've received," Melissa Rivers said in the statement to ABC News. "At this time she does remain on life support."

4. Justin Bieber Arrested While Spending Day With Selena Gomez

News broke yesterday that Justin Bieber had been arrested late last week in Canada and charged with dangerous driving and assault.

Pictures and statements from Bieber's attorney, Brian H. Greenspan, show that the pop singer was once again with his on and off again flame Selena Gomez riding together on an all-terrain vehicle before the incident that resulted in his arrest.

"Justin Bieber and Selena Gomez’ peaceful retreat in Stratford this weekend was unfortunately disrupted by the unwelcome presence of the paparazzi. This has regrettably resulted in charges of dangerous driving and assault," Bieber's lawyer, Brian H. Greenspan, told ABC News.

5. New Zealand Basketball Team's Haka Dance Baffles Team USA

New Zealand's basketball team chanted and posed, stomping forward and stamping the court in a traditional haka dance.

The U.S. players paused during their warmups, amused and intrigued.

The scene played out before Tuesday’s FIBA Basketball World Cup matchup.