Stocks spike on Ukraine-Russia cease-fire talk Stocks spike on Ukraine-Russia cease-fire talk   Risk assets across Europe rose sharply on Wednesday morning, led by a surge in Russian stocks, after Ukraine's President Petro Poroshenko announced he had reached a cease-fire agreement with Russia's Vladimir Putin.   The deal brought hopes of an end to the fighting which has taken place in recent months in eastern Ukraine's Donbass region. The announcement came at around 9:00 a.m. London time from Poroshenko's press office and was tweeted by the Ukrainian leader. This boosted investor sentiment briefly but a denial by Moscow shortly afterwards led stock markets to pare those gains slightly. A spokesperson for Putin said that Russia had not agreed on a cease-fire because the country is not a party in the Ukraine conflict. By around 10:30 a.m London time, the Ukraine presidency had changed the wording on the cease-fire statement, dropping the word "permanent" from the text.   
 Ukraine tweetRussian shares on the MICEX index rose 4 percent after the news, before easing lower to trade 2.7 percent higher, with the  German Dax climbing 1.3 percent. Other European bourses tracked those gains with the EURO STOXX 50 Volatility Index - used as a gauge of fear in the region's stock markets - falling 6 percent to a session low.
					
			    								
		
												
																
	
					
						
																													
																											

			
				THOMAS LOHNES | Getty Images
				RANKFURT/MAIN, Germany: A trader sitting in front of a chart displaying German share index DAX gestures as he speaks on the phone
	
	
																
			
									  Click here for the latest on the European markets.   The euro appreciated slightly against the dollar and the rouble made major gains against the greenback. The Russian currency had started the session at 37.4410 against the dollar but surged to trade at 36.8550 shortly after the Kremlin's announcement.   Read MorePoroshenko's office:Ceasefire reached with Russia    Click here to see how U.S. futures are trading.   Meanwhile, so-called "safe havens" saw some selling with the yield on the German 10-year bund - which has an inverse relationship to its price - rising to 0.964 percent against Tuesday's close of 0.93 percent. The yield on the U.S 10-year Treasury also climbed, rising to 2.4586 percent, after closing at 2.419 percent on Tuesday evening. Spot gold fell sharply and lost nearly a dollar of its price but later regained ground to trade flat for the session.
					
			    								
		
												
																
	
					
						
																																																																						
																																						
																			
																																											
		
	

	                   	
				        		       			       			Play Video       		

				        	                      	          
	
				

																
			
									  Poroshenko's press office said in a statement that a "mutual understanding was achieved concerning the steps which will enable the establishment of peace".   This comes as European Union ambassadors are set to meet on Wednesday to discuss the possibility of more sanctions against Russia. Pro-Russian separatists have been battling Kiev's forces in the mainly Russian-speaking Donbass region. Moscow has been accused by Kiev of sending troops into the region to fight alongside the rebels, which Russian officials have denied.   Read MoreHow Europe's slump could doom Ukraine
					
			    								
		
												
																
	
					
						
																																																																						
																																						
																			
																																											
		
	

	                   	
				        		       			       			Play Video       		

				        	                      	          
	
				

																
			
									  Meanwhile, U.S. President Barack Obama visited the Baltic nation of Estonia on Wednesday morning and said at a press conference that it was too early to tell what the cease-fire means. He added that his preference was for a strong, cooperative Russia.   Timothy Ash, head of emerging markets research at Standard Bank, said that he was inclined to not believe the statement from the Russian Kremlin due to its track record of "spin", and was minded to think the opposite.   Read MoreUkraine may need bigger bailout: IMF   "Let's see if this holds...a halt to fighting, however temporary, is a positive." he said in research note after the first statement from Ukraine.    "Poroshenko will have to deliver on Putin's agenda, and I really struggle to see how that can be sold domestically in Ukraine ahead of parliamentary elections in October." 