Tropical Storm Dolly Moves Ashore off Mexico Gulf Tropical Storm Dolly Moves Ashore off Mexico Gulf 
Heavy rains from Tropical Storm Dolly threatened flash floods and mudslides in mountainous areas as it moved in from Mexico's Gulf coast, where authorities had readied shelters and suspended school classes Wednesday.

The U.S. Hurricane Center said Dolly was located about 40 miles (70 kilometers) southwest of Tampico early Wednesday morning. The storm's maximum sustained winds had decreased to near 40 mph (65 kph) and it was moving to the west at 8 mph (13 kph).

The storm was expected to bring 5 to 10 inches (12 to 25 centimeters) of rain to states of Tamaulipas and Veracruz, along the Gulf coast and inland. Life-threatening flash floods and mud slides were possible in mountainous areas.

Tropical storm force winds extended outward up to 140 miles (220 kilometers) but weakening was expected over the next 24 hours as Dolly moved farther inland.

Tamaulipas state authorities said earlier in the day that shelters were being readied and that classes would be suspended Wednesday in several municipalities along the Gulf coast. Authorities in neighboring Veracruz state ordered classes in the whole state suspended.

By Tuesday evening, several streets in the port city of Veracruz had flooded and least two streets where electric workers had been doing underground work had collapsed, damaging a house and several cars.

Meanwhile, Tropical Storm Norbert formed off Mexico's Pacific coast Tuesday. By early Wednesday, Norbert's center was about 135 miles (215 kilometers) west-southwest of Cabo Corrientes, and about 270 miles (435 kilometers) south-southeast of the southern tip of Baja California.

Hurricane forecasters said that on its current track, Norbert is expected to move away from the southwestern coast of Mexico on Wednesday, and approach the southern tip of the Baja California peninsula on Thursday.

A tropical storm warning was issued early Wednesday for the southern portion of Baja California.

The storm's maximum sustained winds were around 60 mph (95 kph), and the storm was moving northwest at 8 mph (13 kph).