Sasha Mordovets/Getty Images | Thierry Charlier/AFP/Getty ImagesUkraine, Russia Appear Close to Ceasefire Deal Sasha Mordovets/Getty Images | Thierry Charlier/AFP/Getty ImagesUkraine, Russia Appear Close to Ceasefire Deal 
A deal on a Ukraine ceasefire appears near after the presidents of Ukraine and Russia spoke by phone today, but a truce declared by Ukraine was quickly shot down by Russia.

                                        
                                        
                                            
                                        
                                                                Russia Accused of Launching a Full-Scale Invasion of Ukraine
                                                                
                                                            
                                        

                                
                                
                            
                        
                        
Ukraine’s President Petro Poroshenko backtracked Wednesday after initially saying that there "agreement on a permanent cease-fire." He later revised his statement to say the two countries had an "agreement on a cease-fire regime."

The revised statement came after Russian President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman says the two men largely shared views on ways out of the crisis, but said Russia was not a party to the conflict between the Ukraine military and pro-Russian rebel forces.

President Obama and an EU spokesman have also said that reports of a ceasefire are not confirmed. Obama is currently in Estonia participating in a NATO summit.

It's not clear whether Ukraine's pro-Russian rebels are willing to accept a ceasefire. Vladislav Brrig, a rebel official, told The Associated Press, "As long as Ukrainian forces are on the territory of the Donetsk People's Republic there can be no ceasefire."

Just a few weeks ago, Ukraine's military had the momentum, pushing back rebel forces and closing in on their strongholds of Luhansk and Donetsk, but over the past week Ukraine and NATO officials claim that Russia has sent its forces across the border to prevent the pro-Russian forces from being defeated. The rebels also opened up a new front by grabbing the southern city of Novoazovsk and are now menacing a key seaport of Mariupol.

Russia denies that its troops are in Ukraine, but Putin has told Ukraine that it should negotiate with the rebels who are demanding autonomy from the Ukraine government in Kiev.
