Best Games from August Best Games from August 
Games, games, games. So many games came out this last month. Some simple, others complex. We even had a game from the now infamous developer of Flappy Bird. What more could you ask for? In case you were too busy enjoying the summer weather, we have compiled a list of the best games from August. These are the ones you should check out and download. Enjoy!
ALONE

ALONE is a handcrafted, intense survival journey through space. Navigate caves, rip through rocky debris, dodge rocks and comets and test your endurance as you pursue ever higher scores in this ultra fast, procedural runner. This game has hours of action filled gameplay across three unlockable difficulty levels and two awesome bonus modes. It&#8217;s available for $1.99.
Amazing Brick

Do you like Flappy Bird? Let me rephrase that. Do you know about Flappy Bird? Of course you do. Amazing Brick is a similar style of game, but it doesn&#8217;t make you want to rip your hair out. All you do is tap to go up through obstacles. It&#8217;s very minimally designed, but a lot of fun. It&#8217;s available for free from the Play Store.
Back to Bed

Back to Bed is a 3D puzzle game set in a unique and artistic dream world, wherein you guide the sleepwalker Bob to the safety of his bed. To achieve this, you must take control of Bob’s subconscious guardian named Subob. The pair travels through a surreal and painting-like dream world, filled with objects used to guide Bob towards the Bed, but also dangers that must be avoided. Grab this game for $4.00.
Bik

Bik is a retro-style adventure game that takes inspiration from classic point-and-click adventure games. The game follows a young boy who is abducted by aliens while on a camping trip. After joining forces with two friendly alien mercenaries, Bik escapes from his abductors and tries to find his way home. Tons of fun happens to Bik and his friends along the way. Download Bik for $1.99.
Calculords

Innovative collectible card gaming combined with number puzzles and turn-based tactical combat.  Earth has been destroyed by the evil Hate Bit and you are the Last Star Nerd. Clever use of numbers lets you deploy starships, soldiers, tanks, aliens, and devastating tactics. You&#8217;ll have to be several kinds of brilliant to save what&#8217;s left of space. Calulords is very unique and fun. It can be yours for $2.99.
Crazy Taxi City Rush

Drive crazy in SEGA’s all-new Crazy Taxi. Race through the city to deliver your passengers on-time; the crazier you drive the higher your rewards. That&#8217;s right, the crazier you drive the more rewards you get. It is called Crazy Taxi after all. This new Crazi Taxi games also allows you to fully customize your cab. Are you craaaazy enough to download this game for free?
Dragon Quest IV

Dragon Quest IV, the first installment in the Zenithian Trilogy, is now out for Android. This epic adventure, unfolding over five unique chapters, each focusing on a different cast of characters, can now be enjoyed on your phone. Enter a fantasy world of sword, magic, and monsters with over 40 hours of gameplay. Buy it for $14.99 and never be asked for money again.
Five Nights at Freddy&#8217;s

Welcome to your new summer job at Freddy Fazbear&#8217;s Pizza, where kids and parents alike come for entertainment and food as far as the eye can see! The main attraction is Freddy Fazbear, of course; and his two friends. They are animatronic robots, programmed to please the crowds. As simple as this game is it&#8217;s very frightening. Download it for $2.99 if you dare.
King of Dragon Pass

Create your own epic saga of conflict, mythology and community! Rule your own clan, take important strategic decisions, win battles and expand the territory of your people. This game is a unique mix of RPG and strategy. Everything in King of Dragon Pass is about choice and control. Choose your counsel carefully, sign diplomatic agreements or declare war on nearby clans. All of this can be yours for $9.99.
Madden NFL Mobile

Many football gamers have likely already drain hours of their time into Madden NFL 15 for consoles as it launched this past Tuesday. But what if  you’re away from home and need that football fix? EA Sports has a pretty decent gift for you: Madden NFL Mobile. We’ve had a few days to sink our teeth into it and determine whether this is the pigskin simulator that your phone or tablet deserves. Check out our review and then download it for free.
MOUNTAIN

Have you ever thought about what it would be like if you were a mountain? No? Well, in MOUNTAIN that  is exactly what you do. You are a mountain. That&#8217;s pretty much all there is to it. Nothing you do really matters. Sound like fun? For $1 it&#8217;s all yours.
Skulls of the Shogun

Crush your enemies and eat their skulls! Skulls of the Shogun is a fast-paced turn-based strategy game, supercharged with fighting-game flair and double-stuffed with a serious sense of humor. Enter the Samurai Afterlife and join forces with undead warriors, magical monks, and mighty mustachioed samurai generals! This awesome game can be yours for just $1.99.
Surgeon Simulator

Ever wanted to be a deadly surgeon that didn’t know an artery from a bone? Fancy cutting into some poor schmuck who thinks he’s about to get a quality operation only to die on the operating table? Me neither, but we can at least experience that harrowing, twisted situation in digital form. Surgeon Similar puts the buzz saw and scalpel into your hands. If you&#8217;re up to the task it will cost you $5.99.
Swing Copter

Swing Copters can be seen as a spiritual successor to Flappy Bird. Instead of trying to make your way through pipes and obstacles on a horizontal axis, you’re now trying to do much of the same going vertical in a helicopter. It&#8217;s still very difficult, though the latest update made it much easier. Swing Copters is free if you dare to get addicted.
Time Tangle

Time Tangle is another great game based on the cartoon Adventure Time. In thi sgame you punch stuff, do infinite quests, rescue your friends, beat beastly bad guys, and enjoy awesome cutscenes with your favorite characters. Run, punch, rinse, repeat. If you&#8217;re in for an adventure you can grab this game for $2.99.
WWE SuperCard

WWE SuperCard puts the power of WWE Superstars, Legends, and Divas in your hands by bringing the hard-hitting, larger-than-life action of WWE to mobile in a brand new card battle game! Collect your favorite WWE Superstars, Divas, Legends and Managers. Take your five-man team online against other players to test your skills. Play for free if you&#8217;re ready!
         Continue reading: