What The Right Could Learn From The Left About Making Emotional Connections
								

								
										
									, What The Right Could Learn From The Left About Making Emotional Connections
								

								
										
									, Guest post written by
		John Tillman
		John Tillman is President of Think Freely Media, a non-profit organization.
	

								
We’ve all seen it. You turn on cable news and there’s a debate about the Affordable Care Act. 
The conservative pundit or politician rattles off a bunch of statistics, such as how many full-time jobs will be lost over the next 10 years (2.5 million, according to the Congressional Budget Office). He (yes, more than likely it is a he) mentions other CBO stats, talks about reduced wages and the individual mandate penalty affecting millions. Then he concludes with more numbers, mentioning that only 24 percent of “ObamaCare” enrollees previously were uninsured, and the terrible rollout of the ObamaCare website.
	
								 
When the interview turns to the health reform enthusiast, viewers quickly forget the conservative’s statistics. She shares a compelling story about a family who had been denied health coverage for 10 years but, thanks to this terrible thing called ObamaCare, now has affordable insurance. Or she tells about the 60-year-old who saved 50 percent over her current premiums and cut her deductible in half. Or, the school bus driver in Pennsylvania who canceled her insurance because every claim was denied for being a pre-existing condition. Then shortly after enrolling in ObamaCare, she was diagnosed with a rare blood disorder. “Thank goodness for this ‘horrible’ thing called ObamaCare,” she says to massive applause. 
For too long, the Right has yielded implied moral victories to the Left. The Right argues with facts, figures, and charts, trying to win the case for free markets in a spreadsheet. But the Left’s playing field is in the hearts of the people and, in too many cases, they are winning.
								
										 
This shouldn’t come as a surprise. Research by social psychologist Jonathan Haidt shows that when people are confronted with an emotionally evocative situation, they make an instant moral judgment. Logic and data that disprove these initial judgments will likely do no good – morality always beats perceived materialism. 
Arthur Brooks of the American Enterprise Institute has long maintained that to win the argument that free enterprise is the best path to prosperity for all people, “You have one choice, and only one: You have to make your own moral case for free enterprise, right from the beginning. No data, no appeals to stats from the Congressional Budget Office. You can bring that stuff in later. When you first open your mouth, it better be to say what’s written on your heart about the country you love and the system that makes us strong and free.” 
There are signs that this lesson is beginning to permeate the Right – and the Left is taking notice. In a recent campaign ad, Dr. Monica Wehby, Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate from Oregon, highlighted the story of a mother and her young daughter. After being told the young child would die, Dr. Wehby stepped in and performed surgery that saved the baby. The ad went viral, and Chris Cillizza of The Washington Post said the ad was “one of the best we’ve ever seen.” Why? Because it conveyed a story that was so emotionally jarring that the viewer couldn’t let go. Her messaged resonated with voters and Dr. Wehby defeated her primary opponent, a current member of the Oregon legislature, by 12 percentage points. Hopefully, this victory will inspire other candidates to follow the same path. 
As a movement, the Right must stop talking about spreadsheets and start talking about how the information on these spreadsheets impacts actual everyday people in a very real way.
										
										 
And there’s an advantage the Right has that the Left does not: truth. Free enterprise does the most good for the most vulnerable and can help pave a pathway for success and happiness for all. Our job is to demonstrate it. 
John Tillman is President of Think Freely Media, a non-profit organization dedicated to increasing the ability of pro-liberty decision makers and thought leaders to communicate the benefits of liberty in a more persuasive manner. Think Freely Media is the sponsor of the 2014 Great Communicators Tournament. Learn more at&nbsp;www.thinkfreelymedia.org/tournament.