At Labor Day Event, Obama pushes GOP to raise minimum wage At Labor Day Event, Obama pushes GOP to raise minimum wage 
        
            
           
                
                    Play Video
                    In the spirit of Labor Day, Obama promotes boosting minimum wage
                
            
        
    President Obama will use a Labor Day event to urge Republicans to raise the minimum wage, his latest push on a campaign-year issue that Democrats hope will boost their support at the polls.Mr. Obama is traveling to Milwaukee, Wisconsin Monday to speak at Laborfest, an event visited in 2008 during his first presidential campaign. Despite a host of foreign crises he has faced all summer, the president's focus will be on domestic news, which is decidedly less gloomy.He'll highlight the addition of 10 million new jobs in the past 53 months, including six straight months of growth with more than 200,000 per month - the first time since 1997 that has happened. He will also point to a 6.2 percent unemployment rate, which is down 1.1 percent from last year with significant gains among the long-term unemployed.The picture isn't entirely as rosy as the White House paints it to be. A Pew Research analysis concludes that the rate of "underemployment" - people who want to work but haven't job-hunted recently and those who work part-time for economic reasons, not by choice - was 12.2 percent in July.In the spirit of Labor Day, Obama promotes boosting minimum wageMinimum wage bill dies in SenateUnderemployment has dropped to the point that it is near the high end of what it used to be before the recession began,but it still remains higher than it has been at any point since 1994, when it was first measured.Pew says the biggest contributing factor has been a major increase in the number of part-time workers that has been slow to fall: 7.7 million as of July, which is 3.3 million more people who work part-time for economic reasons than there were before the recession began.
        
            
           
                
                    Play Video
                    Seattle approves $15 an hour minimum wage
                
            
        
    Mr. Obama will focus Monday on the minimum wage, which has been a persistent focus all year as Democrats align their focus with pocketbook issues ahead of what is expected to be a tough midterm election. In February, the president signed an executive order requiring federal contractors to pay their employees at least $10.10 per hour, one of several executive steps he has taken this year in a show of effort to tackle issues he says Congress is ignoring.A companion bill from Senate Democrats that would have raised federal minimum wage by the same amount was blocked by Republicans in April. The current minimum wage is $7.25 per hour. 
        
            
           
                
                    Play Video
                    Obama: GOP standing in the way of minimum wage increase
                
            
        
    Mr. Obama also used his weekly address over Labor Day Weekend to focus on the minimum wage, saying that states and private sector employers should raise their hourly pay without waiting for Congress. "There are reasons to be optimistic about where we're headed, and the decisions we make now will determine whether or not we accelerate the progress," he said. And the way to grow the American middle class, he went on, is "not by making sure a fortunate few at the top are doing well, but by making sure that everyone who's willing to work hard and play by the rules can get ahead." 