Who Says There Can Be 'No Boots On The Ground' When Taking On The Islamic State? Who Says There Can Be 'No Boots On The Ground' When Taking On The Islamic State? Increasingly, I am coming to the realization that the debate we are having over how to deal with the Islamic State is an exercise &nbsp;playing out with one side of the argument arriving to the discussion with one arm tied firmly behind its back. 
It remains unclear to me whether or not the rise of the Islamic State is a battle that will require American ground troops to resolve a threat to the security of our nation and our allies—if, in fact such a threat truly exists. However, what is clear is that&nbsp;approaching the discussion by taking any possible response that would produce success off the table is a truly a**-backwards way of going about finding a smart and successful resolution to the problem.
	
								 
So let me be the one to ask the question—if the President and Congress come to the conclusion that the Islamic State poses a threat to the United States and its allies, either now or in the future, who says that there can be no American boots on the ground? 
Certainly, those who are smarting from the decision to invade Iraq in 2003 would necessarily fall at the head of the list of those unwilling to contemplate such an engagement.
								
										 
And who can blame them? 
After what seems to be an eternity of America at war, thanks to some remarkably questionable decisions by the nation’s leaders, it is entirely understandable that millions of Americans are sick and tired of our forfeiting the lives of our children for what can only be described as a series of policy mistakes, not to mention all the money we have spent that could have been put to better use here at home. 
While I count myself among the many who, right from the outset, saw the sheer and complete folly in the American invasion of Iraq, and cringe at the thought of more American lives being put at risk in yet another overseas war, it makes no sense to me that we would start the&nbsp;discussion of how to respond to the Islamic State by &nbsp;placing limits on what we won’t do, even if doing it would produce a better outcome and is within the law. 
Put another way, can we afford to limit the response that might otherwise be called for because of the mistakes made in the past? Could that not result in compounding our past errors with yet another error because of an emotional response to those past errors?
										
										 
While the grave mistakes of the past are certainly valuable in terms of providing a deadly clear cautionary tale in just how badly things can go wrong for the United States when we move too quickly and for the wrong reasons, is this a justification to avoid doing what may be necessary in the future, no matter how emotionally disturbing the correct course of action may be? 
Understand that I am not suggesting that I have come to a conclusion that our military forces are required to, yet again, hit the desert running nor am I saying that I have concluded that our participation—if any—must be confined to only certain activities such as air support for others willing to fight the battle. 
What I am saying is that past sins are no excuse for handicapping what may need to be done in current or future circumstances. Indeed, to consider anything less than all&nbsp;possible options that may be required simply because we’re ‘tired’ is a foolish way to go about things and one more likely than not to lead to a very unfortunate result. 
What I am suggesting is that whatever action we may—or may not—take with respect to the Islamic State must be based on a sound determination of whether the United States has a rational basis to conclude that the Islamic State posses a real threat to our own security and the security of our allies or, alternatively, that this scourge is little more than a temporary regional threat that can be handled by regional players. 
Sadly, our ability to be more fully informed on this question through the process of intelligent debate and discussion has been superseded by the seemingly irresistible tug of partisan politics. If you are, today—in the wake of the tragic beheading of a second American journalist by the Islamic State—posting pithy tweets asking “Do we have a strategy yet, Mr. President?” you are way too involved in Obama bashing and racking up snark points with your followers to be of any value to the national discussion. At the same time, if you are pontificating from the other side on how the Islamic State is little more than a temporary, regional problem that will never reach our shores—despite having yet to gather any legitimate evidence to back up your case—you too are doing nothing to provide a public service. 
There is nothing liberal nor conservative in how we view a terrorist group that is remarkably well funded, militarily adept and responsible for murdering two American citizens. There is nothing liberal or conservative about wanting our leaders to proceed sensibly, with a clear understanding of what they are doing, the complications to be expected and the road map that provides the best possible outcome. 
As one thinks through the near-term stated objectives of the Islamic State—the establishment of a Caliphate in the Middle East—one can understand how it is possible to conclude that they will be far too preoccupied with their immediate goals to put any focus on launching attacks on our own homeland in the near future. 
But, any rational analysis must leave room for the possibility that ISIS has plans to make their point beyond the territorial limits of the Middle East. 
  The Islamic State has, after all, made it all too clear that their long-term goal is to establish the Caliphate throughout the world. 
That doesn’t happen unless and until they go through us. 
What’s more, we should all be able to agree that our interests require that we would be called upon to assist our allies that would likely lie in the path of the Islamic State’s goals in the Middle East, including Jordan and Israel. 
Thus, it doesn’t take too much of a logic leap to understand that were the Islamic State to continue on its current path—which is one of considerable success—eventually we will have to face up to our responsibilities with respect to this enemy if it turns out that they cannot be whipped by regional military forces. 
So, do we face up to it now or do we face up to it later? Are we better off giving it a little more time to see how local ground troops, benefitting from our air support, perform against the ISIS military forces? Do we go in now with the understanding that the earlier we seek to crush the Islamic State the better off we may be—knowing that it will not be an instant win but will take time, lives and money? 
These are reasonable questions for smart discussion and debate…and a reason why we should allow the President the time necessary to game this out without the ever-present crush of political opponents seeking to make hay over a national crisis. While Americans are, understandably, anxious to enjoy the vacation from the state of permanent war promised to us by the Obama administration, we must consider whether such a holiday would come at a far greater price down the road—whether that road be short or long. 
At this moment, I propose no answers to you.&nbsp;&nbsp;I propose no answers because there is so much more I need to know. 
Are our allies prepared to join us in whatever action we may find necessary in combatting the Islamic State or are they looking for yet another free ride while our men and women in uniform and out of uniform die in the battle against terrorism? Will those nations in the Middle East with a great deal to lose at the hands of the Islamic State—even those who have been our enemies—join us in the battle? Can this fight be won by aiming a few Hellfire missiles into the window of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi’s home? Have we determined for a certainty that the brave men and women of the Kurdish armed forces,along with the more questionable Iraqi forces are sufficient, with the help of our air support, to defeat the Islamic State without additional foot soldiers coming from other parts of the world? Can we defeat the Islamic State without the ability to take them on in Syria, their home base, or will be forced to find common ground with the al-Assad regime? 
If you think you already know the answers to these questions, might I respectfully suggest that maybe you have not yet fully explored the subject matter to reach a non-political, unvarnished point of view on this most serious of matters. 
For that reason, maybe a little less focus on Obama-bashing or Obama-supporting might, just this once, be in order. Blaming the President for not taking on this matter earlier will do us no good whatsoever in determining the best way forward. Spending one’s time defending the political honor of the President rather than helping the public understand what is at issue here will only result in a public driven by emotion—no matter how much that emotion may be deserved—and, possibly, lead us to the wrong decisions based on politics rather than national security. 
The Islamic State is a real problem for&nbsp;all Americans—not just Americans of one political stripe or another. We should do ourselves a favor and treat the matter accordingly. 
Contact Rick at thepolicypage@gmail.com and follow me on Twitter and Facebook. 
&nbsp;