J&K: Will elections mark the end of the Abdullah 'dynasty'? J&K: Will elections mark the end of the Abdullah 'dynasty'? 
					by Aasha KhosaNew Delhi: Is the time up for the Abdullahs in Jammu &amp; Kashmir? If you read the political winds in the troubled state correctly, the answer would be yes. The ground below the feet of Farooq and Omar is too shaky this time and their party, the National Conference (NC), could end up with its worst performance in the coming assembly elections. After losing all six seats to rivals Peoples&rsquo; Democratic Party (PDP) and the BJP in the recent general elections, the prospect of the party&rsquo;s recovery looks bleak.Analysis of the vote share in the Lok Sabha election shows that the party dominated in only five of the 12 assembly segments in its bastion of Srinagar. Party stalwart Farooq Abdullah had to concede defeat to a relatively unknown candidate AH Karra of the PDP from this Lok Sabha constituency. By leading in 41 of the 87 assembly constituencies Mehbooba Mufti&rsquo;s PDP emerged as the most popular party in the state.Beside the PDP, the Abdullahs face a fresh challenge from the Amit Shah-led BJP. The party has made huge inroads in the Jammu region by winning half of the state&rsquo;s Lok Sabha seats and is now actively pursuing its ambitious &lsquo;Mission 44&rsquo; hoping to emerge as the state&rsquo;s next ruling party. The party is targeting both the NC and PDP for &lsquo;family rule&rsquo; and has launched a campaign to `rid Kashmir of dynastic politics.&rsquo;Khalid Jehangir, journalist-turned BJP spokesperson, said, "Both Mufti Sayeed and Farooq Abdullah have always tried to curry favours with the Centre to secure interests of their progeny and not of the people of Kashmir. BJP will end this."Besides political rivals, the Abdullahs face a major challenge within the family in the form of Khalida Shah, Sheikh Abdullah&rsquo;s eldest daughter and wife of late Ghulam Mohommad Shah, and her son Muzzaffar Shah. They lead the Awami National Conference (ANC) which does not wield a big clout among the masses but has the potential to damage the Abdullahs politically. The ANC got a boost recently when NC&rsquo;s member of Parliament Abdul Rasheed Shaheen joined it. He quit the NC after questioning Omar Abdullah&rsquo;s leadership.In the Hindu dominant Jammu, the NC had strategically showcased a prominent `Rajput&rsquo; leader as sign of party&rsquo;s inclusive politics. There, too, it now faces a fresh challenge. Rival PDP has received a shot in its arms with Vikramaditya Singh, scion of the former Royal family, joining the party. Vikramaditya, who is son of veteran Congress leader Dr Karan Singh, will fight against NC&rsquo;s Rajput leader Devinder Singh Rana.Does it augur the end of the road for the Abdullah clan&rsquo;s tight control on Kashmir&rsquo;s oldest political party? &ldquo;Yes, times are changing in Kashmir, people want drastic changes," said Tariq Jameel, a onetime popular radio jockey of AIR Srinagar. &ldquo;Sheikh Abdullah was a very tall leader and people have been voting for the National Conference in his name for decades. The younger generations wants a bigger role and say in politics," he added."NC should forget that people will vote it back to power only because it is founded by Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah," MY Tarigami, general secretary CPM, told Firstpost, predicting a rout for the party.If the NC is worried, it is not showing it yet. Insiders say the party is wary of the rise in extremism on all sides. &ldquo;On one side it is the BJP which is stoking the passions among the Hindus and on the other side is the PDP, which is hobnobbing with extremists," said a senior party leader, wondering whether there is space for moderate forces like NC anymore.Sensing the popular mood, Chief Minister Omar has taken some desperate measures to win over the people - he has ordered regularization of 55,000 daily wagers; given reservation to paharis and criticized the Modi government for cancellation of talks with Pakistan. But this may not be enough.Omar may have to do the campaigning without his father&rsquo;s help as Dr Farooq Abdullah, who&rsquo;s not keeping well. The junior Abdullah is often heckled for not being able to speak in Kashmiri. &ldquo;When the going was good, we would explain in the rallies that since Omar sahib&rsquo;s mother is not a Kashmiri, he should not be expected to speak the language but not now, where the tide is against us," says a senior NC minister.