Lay off Rahul Gandhi: Congress young guard takes battle to seniors Lay off Rahul Gandhi: Congress young guard takes battle to seniors 
					New Delhi: The battle for primacy in the Congress between the old guard and the young guard appears to be intensifying. In a move not usual in the party, a group of young leaders has conveyed its dissatisfaction to party seniors over some of the latter airing their views on party matters in public. The new guard has decided not to take any further public criticism of their leader, Rahul Gandhi, lying down.The signs of the deepening conflict started showing last week when Janardan Dwivedi, one of the senior most leaders, suggested a retirement age for seniors from active posts in party organisation. While a section of seniors welcomed it behind closed doors, they fear that this may be viewed differently by others. The reaction was on expected lines &ldquo;senior leaders have easy access to our high command. They can tell the president and vice president about their thoughts in a frank manner,&rdquo; said Madhusudan Mistry, senior Congress leader. &ldquo;They (senior leaders) can sit with them and discuss issues rather than going to the press in public,&rdquo; he added.Close on the heels of this, Digvijaya Singh too spoke his mind: &ldquo;Rahul Gandhi&rsquo;s silence on critical issues was also a factor leading to the party losing the war of perception (to BJP)&rdquo;. Many within the party feel that he has hit the nail on the head, and only an active Rahul Gandhi will mean revival of the party&rsquo;s fortunes. But Rahul continues being his reticent self and the party had to distance itself from the senior leader. &ldquo;This may be his personal view but this is not the time to give suggestions through media and this is not the opportune time. We have to strive to strengthen the party collectively,&rdquo; defended Abhishek Singhvi, Congress national spokesperson.But the knives have already been out against those considered close to Rahul Gandhi. Last month, former Union minister CP Joshi and Madhusudan Mistry were dropped from the screening committees that were set up for the upcoming assembly elections later this year. Joshi headed the panel for Madhya Pradesh while Mistry was looking after Chhattisgarh panel for the 2013 assembly elections, BJP won both states handsomely. These two leaders have the eyes and ears of the vice president and have played an instrumental role in pushing forward Rahul&rsquo;s style of politics. Rahul believes in a more scientific approach towards selecting candidates, while senior leaders prefer to go by the &ldquo;winnability&rdquo; factor. Leaders close to Rahul have been at the receiving end for their experiments in the organisation in the run up to 2014 general elections.But the second rung leadership feels the time has come for the seniors to stop this witch hunting within the organisation. &ldquo;If Rahul was responsible for the party&rsquo;s defeat, then what about the senior leaders and our own MPs?&rdquo; asks a close Rahul aide. &ldquo;Tickets were given to almost all sitting MP&rsquo;s with consent from everyone, but why did over 150 of them lose. Is Rahul to blame for that also?&rdquo; he retorts.While there is no doubt that serious issues need introspection rather than defending it, most are of the opinion that these matters should be discussed within the party forum. What is causing heartburn among most of the younger leaders is that the senior lot needs to accept blame for the party&rsquo;s debacle as they too played an equally important role in decision making. What they are witnessing now is a direct attack on Rahul Gandhi and his style of politics.&ldquo;One person cannot be put to fault, everyone has to take responsibility for the good and bad things,&rdquo; says Rajeev Satav, president of Indian Youth Congress. &ldquo;We lost the elections mainly due to disconnect between people and UPA-II and not because of the party. If it wasn&rsquo;t for Soniaji and Rahulji, we could have slipped even further&rdquo; he confides.