BJP MLA Jitender Shunty shot at by gunmen: All you need to know BJP MLA Jitender Shunty shot at by gunmen: All you need to know 
					On Wednesday, at 5.30 am a gunman shot at BJP MLA from Shahdara, Jitender Singh Shunty, outside his house in east Delhi&rsquo;s Vivek Vihar area. Bullets narrowly missed the MLA and he escaped unhurt. CCTV cameras at Shunty's house captured the entire incident.Here's what happened.Early on Wednesday morning, a gang of two men arrived at Shunty's residence in Vivek Vihar and repeatedly rang the bell. A report in the livemint&nbsp;said it was when Shunty went out to get the door the shooting took place.&ldquo;As Shunty went out to check, the man who was wearing a helmet, told him that he wanted to get some documents attested,&rdquo; said a police official.As the BJP MLA took the papers from them and turned around to go inside his house, the attacker whipped out a pistol. An&nbsp;India Today report said, Shunty tried to prevent the assailant from shooting "and had a scuffle with him but the gunman managed to fire three to four shots at him," which missed the MLA&nbsp;by a whisker.Shunty reportedly ran outside screaming for help when the attackers fled. The police was then informed about the incident.Shunty told the&nbsp;police that he did not know the attackers and had never seen them. Empty cartridges were recovered from the lane outside the MLAs'&nbsp;residence."When he started shooting I moved back and the bullet hit my door. I then ran to my neighbour's house and he was still shooting at me. He must have shot at me at least 3 to 4 times. I have no grudges against anyone. Everything can be seen on the CCTV footage," Shunty&nbsp;said, adding that the shooter was not scared.In a report in the DNA, Shunty told mediapersons that it was a properly planned attack as a recce must have been done before he was fired at because the attacker knew that he&nbsp;would be alone early in the morning and that would be the best time to attack him.Wednesday's shooting isn't an isolated incident of attacks on BJP leaders. In June 2014, following a series of alleged attacks on BJP workers in West Bengal and the murder of a party leader in Uttar Pradesh, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had asked the two state governments to give detailed reports on the incidents.On Wednesday, BJP leaders Nalin Kohli and Satish Upadhyay strongly condemned the attack on MLA Shunty. Delhi BJP chief Satish Upadhyay said,"I think such an incident should never take place. I had a meeting with the Police Commissioner recently and even then many of our MLAs had raised questions about their security."