'Saved By the Bell Story' recalls the glory days of '90s sitcom 'Saved By the Bell Story' recalls the glory days of '90s sitcom DON'T MISS: "Houdini" -- "Fear is how I know I'm alive," the title character of this two-part miniseries says as he explains what motivated him to spend his life defying death. Oscar winner Adrien Brody stars as the escape artist who rose from humble circus sideshows to become America's first world-renowned superstar. The film traces Houdini's public stunts as they grow more spectacular and risky, while also trying to delve into what made him tick. 9 p.m. Monday, History Channel.Other betsSUNDAY: Performances by Rascal Flatts, Sara Evans, LeAnn Rimes and others highlight the "MDA Show of Strength Telethon." It's the 49th annual fundraiser benefiting the Muscular Dystrophy Association. 9 p.m., ABC.SUNDAY: "Masters of Sex" continues its excellent season (pay attention, Emmy voters), but there's trouble for Virginia (Lizzy Caplan) as she gets in over her head trying to treat Barbara Sanderson (Betsy Brandt) on her own.  10 p.m., Showtime.MONDAY: Hormone alert. Time for a nostalgic trip back to Bayside High School for "The Unauthorized Saved By the Bell Story." The film tells the story of six unknown actors thrust into the spotlight in the early '90s when they were cast in the popular sitcom.  9 p.m., Lifetime.MONDAY: Um, this could be awkward: On tonight's edition of "America's Next Top Model," the contestants take part in another photo shoot, during which they're given only a string to wear. 9 p.m., The CW.TUESDAY: Break out the parkas. "Yukon Men," the reality series about life in Tanana, Alaska -- a town just 60 miles from the Arctic Circle -- returns for more thrills, and even more chills. 9 p.m., Discovery Channel.WEDNESDAY: In the new series "My Friends Call Me Johnny," well-connected philanthropist Jean "Johnny" Pigozzi travels the globe to interview his famous pals. We call shotgun. 10 p.m., Esquire.WEDNESDAY: The fantasy football madness resumes as "The League" kicks off its sixth season. In the opener, Kevin (Stephen Rannazzisi) struggles with the fact that his wife, Shiva champ Jenny (Katie Aselton), kicked his butt last season. 10:30 p.m., FXX.THURSDAY: "Lady Valor: The Kristin Beck Story" is a new documentary that chronicles the triumphs and tribulations of former Navy SEAL Christopher Beck, who shortly after retiring began to openly live out life as a transgender woman. 8 p.m., CNN.FRIDAY: "Stand Up to Cancer" is back and bigger than ever. Katie Couric hosts the fundraiser for cancer research, with performances by The Who, Jennifer Hudson, Lupe Fiasco, Dave Matthews and others. 8 p.m., ABC, CBS, NBC, Fox and participating cable networks.SATURDAY: Fans of "Project Greenlight" can double their pleasure with "The Chair." It's a documentary series that follows two first-time filmmakers as they direct separate movies from the same source material. Viewers decide which film is best. 11 p.m., Starz.Contact Chuck Barney at cbarney@bayareanewsgroup.com. Follow him at Twitter.com/chuckbarney and Facebook.com/bayareanewsgroup.chuckbarney.