​Apple, AmEx teaming on iPhone 6 payments system, report says ​Apple, AmEx teaming on iPhone 6 payments system, report says Even the Samsung Galaxy S3 allowed for mobile payments -- this one done at a McDonald's by CNET's Rich Trenholm.It's Labor Day weekend in the U.S, a time for barbecues, back-to-school shopping -- and iPhone rumors of course. Recode on Sunday reported that American Express has agreed to "work together" with Apple on its new iPhone payment system, which is widely expected to be introduced with an iPhone 6 at Apple's September 9 event.Citing unnamed sources familiar with the talks, Recode added that American Express is just one of several partners Apple needs to sign up before it launches the new mobile payments system.  Sources told Recode that Apple has held discussion "with multiple credit card networks" about the new payment system. The Information previously reported that Visa had agreed to work with Apple, Recode noted. Mobile payments, or the notion that you can pay for goods and services at the checkout with your smartphone, are poised break the mainstream if Apple and the iPhone 6 get it right.
            
            Related stories
        
        
                        iPhone 6 -- the jolt that mobile payments need
                    
                                    
                        Apple iPhone 6 event officially set for Sept. 9
                    
                                    We've contacted Apple and American Express for confirmation on the Recode report and will update his post if we hear back. But Apple typically doesn't talk publicly about future products.Wired was just the latest to report recently that the next iPhone would include mobile-payment capabilities powered by a short-distance wireless technology called near-field communication, or NFC. The technology and capability to pay with a tap of your mobile device has been around for years -- you can tap an NFC-enabled Samsung Galaxy S5 or NFC-enabled credit card at point-of-sale terminals found at many Walgreen drugstores -- but awareness and usage remain low. Apple's visibility and massive user base - it already holds credit card data for about 800 million iTunes account holders -- could change that. CNET's Roger Cheng contributed to this report.