FAA Dithering Forces Google And Other Drone Innovators To Take Their Jobs And Technology Abroad FAA Dithering Forces Google And Other Drone Innovators To Take Their Jobs And Technology Abroad Google’s announcement this week that they’ve been testing delivery drones caught the tech world by surprise. &nbsp;What wasn’t surprising to experts familiar with the industry is that Google conducted all of their aerial tests outside the United States. &nbsp;That’s because the FAA has utterly failed to create procedures for companies like Google to test their innovative new technology. &nbsp; &nbsp; If you want to innovate, take your technology and your jobs abroad, at least until the FAA promulgates some rules or Congress forces them to act. 
Under the FAA’s current rules, commercial operators are prohibited from flying unmanned aerial vehicles — drones — unless they first get permission from the FAA. &nbsp;That means a company like Amazon or Google, armed with billions of dollars to invest in technological innovation, simply cannot experiment without one of their tech geniuses first submitting their experimental aircraft to an FAA bureaucrat for approval. &nbsp;
	
								 
 
The FAA also claims their rules are for safety, but that too is a bogus argument. &nbsp;These companies have the resources to buy enough land to test their drones far from any people or other aircraft. &nbsp;In fact, that’s pretty close to what Google decided to do, they took their drones to a rural part of Australia and tested deliveries. &nbsp;That’s also what Amazon asked the FAA for permission to do; the company requested a waiver to test their drones solely over private property with extensive safety procedures. &nbsp;Amazon waited patiently for months, while the FAA dithered. &nbsp;In their request for an exemption,&nbsp;Amazon made it clear that they have other options for testing their drones. &nbsp;They wrote: 
								
									 

 we have been limited to&nbsp;conducting R&amp;D flights indoors or in other countries. Of course, Amazon would prefer to keep&nbsp;the focus, jobs, and investment of this important research and development initiative in the&nbsp;United States by conducting private research and development operations outdoors near Seattle.
 
Google’s announcement should settle it for Amazon, take your operations abroad, at least until the FAA gets their act together. &nbsp; &nbsp;It is a sad state of affairs that America may lose these drone related jobs, but it’s clear that&nbsp;companies can’t build innovative flying machines in a nation where flights are prohibited. 
Gregory S. McNeal&nbsp;is a professor specializing in law and public policy.&nbsp; You can follow him on&nbsp;Twitter @GregoryMcNeal&nbsp;or on&nbsp;Facebook.