Reports Of A $400 Apple iWatch Seem Plausible But Would You Buy One? Reports Of A $400 Apple iWatch Seem Plausible But Would You Buy One? The second week of September is shaping up to be a busy one, with announcements and reveals galore expected from three major events going on at the same time: IFA in Berlin, Intel Developers Forum (IDF) in San Francisco and of course the now official Apple unveil on September 9th. &nbsp;Apple wishes they “could say more” but they don’t have to because literally everyone, from eager members of the press to over-zealous supply chain sources, are tipping Apple’s hand left and right it seems. &nbsp;The latest rumbling to reverberate across the wire today is that Apple’s iWatch or iTime&nbsp;piece, as their July 22nd patent award seems to refer to, not only won’t ship until sometime in 2015 but could set you back a cool $400 bones. 
 
The wearables opportunity that is mounting with major players like Samsung, Google, Intel, LG, Motorola and Timex, could be explosive indeed but again, it’s the manufacturers that know how to truly differentiate that will command market share and a premium for their devices. &nbsp;If a $400 iWatch price tag is closer to fact than fiction, it would put the Cupertino clan once again at the high end of the price spectrum, right where the company likes to play. 
 
Though prices for smartwatches currently range from $200 to $300 for Samsung’s Gear 2 line or various Google Gear devices, it would not be surprising at all for Apple to request (command?) a premium. &nbsp;Personally, if done right, I’d be willing to pay a premium for a well-crafted time piece that looks sharp as a style accessory, while offering meaningful functionality that augments and enhances my mobile computing and communications experience. &nbsp;The latter value proposition is where I get real stuck in the mud on whether a smartwatch like this is worth the investment. 
A few years back on vacation, I splurged and bought an Italian-made watch that is an off-brand (at least I hadn’t heard of it) that offered that chunky, powerful look I liked with supreme build quality and a sturdy stainless steal frame. &nbsp;It’s a Spazio24 and I love it. &nbsp;It’s no Rolex but it looks sharp, takes a beating and just serves me well. &nbsp;I spent $300 for that watch. &nbsp;It only tells me the time and the date (and maybe a few other tidbits I don’t bother with) and that’s just fine. &nbsp;If I were to consider a smartwatch, it would need to live up to that style and quality and offer the same traditional functionality as well additional meaningful functionality that I can’t get conveniently enough with a few swipes of my smartphone. 
The more I think of it, the more the opportunity exists here for Apple to really shine at their strong suit – elegant, sleek, industrial design. &nbsp;In fact, I think that’s a big opportunity for any player in the wearables space. &nbsp;High tech manufacturers should not only be thinking about whiz -bang functionality but if they nail it and build-in striking design, style and ease of use, as the saying goes, “they will come.”
										
										 
So maybe a $400 iTime watch isn’t so far-fetched after all. &nbsp;If Apple can deliver a beautiful product, as they’ve done so well in the past with defining products like the iPhone, iPad and the MacBook Air, you’ll see those Apple store lines again; when it’s iTime.