FAA Grounds University Plan To Educate Students With Drones FAA Grounds University Plan To Educate Students With Drones In June I wrote about the University of South Florida’s plans to lend drones to students, at the time I&nbsp;wrote:  

 Students looking to use drones will be&nbsp;provided&nbsp;training in advance&nbsp;and&nbsp;will be able to check out the small remote-controlled device containing a video camera, which can be used to capture footage from an aerial view. &nbsp;This is exactly what a university should be doing — providing access to new technology for student learning opportunities.
	
								 
 Unfortunately, it is likely the FAA will shut down this forward thinking initiative. &nbsp;Earlier this year, the FAA&nbsp;shut down&nbsp;the drone journalism programs at the University of Missouri and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, claiming that the toy drones used by the programs were aircraft subject to FAA regulations. &nbsp;The universities planned to use the small systems according to amateur/hobbyist rules which allow for flights under 400 feet within the line of site of the operator.
 
Educating students about how to safely operate drones sounded like a great idea. &nbsp;I predicted the FAA would shut down the operation, and it turns out that sadly I was right. &nbsp;The Oracle, USF’s Student Newspaper reports&nbsp;that the FAA denied the University’s application to use drones for educational purposes.
								
										 
 &nbsp; The decision highlights just how poorly the FAA has handled the integration of drones into the national airspace. &nbsp;As thousands of consumers and hobbyists purchase drones (which may be lawfully operated for hobbyist purposes) many of these new operators fly without any training or education. &nbsp;In the midst of this increase in operations, the FAA is enforcing draconian rules that make safety and training courses unlawful — merely because they charge a fee. 
Thus, while the FAA claims that safety is their mandate, they have prohibited educational institutions and other individuals from training people on how to fly safely — unless those people want to do so for free or with unrealistic workarounds like tethers. &nbsp;Does this make any sense? 
 &nbsp; That’s not a controversial or innovative approach to this policy problem, it’s one that just makes sense. &nbsp;The fact that the FAA has failed to encourage educational initiatives suggests that the agency is incapable of handling the integration of drones into the national airspace. 
										
										
Gregory S. McNeal&nbsp;is a professor specializing in law and public policy.&nbsp; You can follow him on&nbsp;Twitter @GregoryMcNeal&nbsp;or on&nbsp;Facebook.