Apps of the Week: Timely, AVG Antivirus & More! Apps of the Week: Timely, AVG Antivirus & More! The Google Play Store. Image: Twitter.It’s Sunday, the time of the week when Cult of Android brings you its report of some of the very best apps we have been using throughout the past week, and today we are focusing our attention on a very elegant alarm clock app, a great tablet security tool, a gorgeous live wallpaper and a time tracking widget.Timely Alarm Clock: Timely Alarm Clock. Image: Play Store.Kicking things off this week we have Timely, an extremely unique alarm clock app which features a stunning user interface with cloud integration, it allows users to backup and synchronize alarms across multiple devices. As for the design, it&#8217;s clear that Bitspin, the developer, has made simplicity a priority.Setting an alarm on your smartphone or tablet has never been easier, simply swipe from the left side of the screen and slide up and down the time bar to set the desired time.There are some great futuristic sounds for you to choose as your alarm tone too and you&#8217;ll have the ability to completely customize Timely, by selecting one of the many on board color themes. Alternatively, if you don&#8217;t like the look of any of the built-in themes, you could always use the integrated design-tool to create a completely new look.Timely is free to download on Google Play and you can grab it by clicking here.Tablet AntiVirus Security: AVG Tablet Security. Image: Play Store.Next up we have AVG&#8217;s Tablet AntiVirus Security, which is quite possibly the best real-time protection available to download from the Play Store for any Android tablet. The app automatically scans through your settings, files and media the second it&#8217;s installed, after this, you can set up a predetermined time to scan your device.The application sifts through your slate and kills any background tasks which are slowing it down. This is done when the built-in algorithm detects that a service is not in use and checks to see if the device would function correctly without it. Then, if AVG comes to the conclusion that the task can be stopped, it will instantly execute the command.AVG&#8217;s Tablet  AntiVirus also features advanced Web Safe software, which allows you to navigate the internet whilst being assured that your personal details are kept secure.Tablet AntiVirus Security is free to download on Google Play and you can grab it by clicking here.Galaxy S4 Nature Live Wallpaper: Galaxy S4 Nature Live Wallpaper. Image: Play Store.No Apps Of The Week column would be complete without a live wallpaper, and this week we have chosen Wasabi’s very clean, simple and elegant Galaxy S4 Nature Live Wallpaper. Once installed on a user&#8217;s device, the wallpaper will change to a truly tranquil countryside image with grass hills and a windy road. When the screen is tapped, leaves will flutter in from all directions.Unfortunately, much like all of Wasabi&#8217;s other masterpieces, there are adverts included, but thankfully they are only housed in the wallpaper’s settings.Galaxy S4 Nature Live Wallpaper is free to download on Google Play, and you can grab it by clicking here.Days Left Widget:Days Left Widget. Image: Play Store.Finally this week, we have Days Left Widget, which allows users to create a unique daily countdown widget on their home screen, so they never miss an important date ever again. In addition to setting their own countdown date, users also have the facility to customize the colors and overlays of the widget.Days Left Widget is free to download on Google Play, and you can grab it by clicking here.