Overcriminalization Comes To National Parks As People Who Fly Toys Face Six Months In Jail Overcriminalization Comes To National Parks As People Who Fly Toys Face Six Months In Jail Yellowstone is now criminally&nbsp;charging drone and other model aircraft operators who fly their devices in the park. &nbsp;Individuals who are criminally charged face six months in jail and fines of up to $5,000. &nbsp;The cases will be prosecuted by The U.S. Department of Justice’s office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Wyoming (a federal prosecutor who otherwise would be prosecuting federal crimes like terrorism, child exploitation, gang violence and human trafficking). &nbsp;Persons charged with flying toys, drones and other model aircraft will quickly find that while their citation looks like a traffic ticket these cases bear no resemblance to those that would land them in traffic court. &nbsp;Rather, to fight the citation defendant’s will need to hire a lawyer (handling this case pro se would be insane) and appear in a U.S. District Court. &nbsp;Their case in federal court will be tried before a U.S. Magistrate Judge and they will face an Assistant United States attorney who will be armed with the full power of the U.S. government. &nbsp; &nbsp;Is this a good use of taxpayer resources? 
The entire scheme smacks of overcriminalization, with penalties that –in most cases– do not fit the crime. &nbsp; &nbsp;The Park Service should change their penalty schedule and implement rules that reserve jail time for only the most serious offenses such as those that actually injure persons or animals or damage park resources.
	
								 
On August 29th Yellowstone issued a release, stating:  

 
								
										 
  
 
 
 
This follows an earlier National Park Service policy memorandum which implemented a sweeping ban on all model aircraft in all national parks. &nbsp;The National Park Service in that June policy memorandum decreed that the ban on “unmanned aircraft” includes a ban on drones and model aircraft, specifically they stated:
										
										 

 For the purposes of this Policy Memorandum, the term “unmanned aircraft” means a device that is used or intended to be used for flight in the air without the possibility of direct human intervention from within or on the device, and the associated operational elements and components that are required for the pilot or system operator in command to operate or control the device (such as cameras, sensors, communication links). &nbsp;This term includes all types of devices that meet this definition (e.g. model airplanes, quadcopters, drones that are used for any purpose, including for recreation or commerce.
 
As I’ve previously written, with the stakes so high, and with such substantial fines and jail time involved, the Park Service needs to do a better job defining what exactly they mean by “unmanned aircraft”: 

 For example, would&nbsp;this&nbsp;paper airplane that can be flown by a phone be banned? &nbsp;What about&nbsp;this&nbsp;$9.50 remote controlled helicopter, would it violate the ban if operated near a camper’s tent by a child? &nbsp;What about&nbsp;this&nbsp;$71 quadcopter if flown over that same tent? &nbsp; How about&nbsp;this&nbsp;$479 quadcopter flown over the same tent? &nbsp;It’s not clear whether any of these uses would be permitted.
 
But more importantly, the National Park Service should do a better job defining the penalties for these offenses. &nbsp;While the Park Service may come up with a different punishment schedule than I suggest here, a reasonable approach would be as follows: 
 
 First time offenders, and those who don’t endanger persons, animals or resources should not face jail time, a fine would be appropriate. &nbsp;Fines could range between $350 and $1,000. 
 Repeat offenders, and those who endanger persons, animals or resources should face a larger fine, ranging from $1,000-$5,000. 
 Only those offenders who act with a criminally negligent mindset and injure a person or animal or damage park resources should face jail time. 
 
While there are legitimate concerns with the flying of model aircraft in National Parks, jail time should be reserved for the most serious offenses — merely flying toys isn’t one of them. 
Gregory S. McNeal&nbsp;is a professor specializing in law and public policy.&nbsp; You can follow him on&nbsp;Twitter @GregoryMcNeal&nbsp;or on&nbsp;Facebook.