Acer Iconia One 7: An Android Tablet For Your Adventurous Weekends Acer Iconia One 7: An Android Tablet For Your Adventurous Weekends Acer’s Iconia One 7 is an Android tablet that knows&nbsp;where it can&nbsp;fit into your lifestyle.&nbsp;If you are looking for a&nbsp;second tablet, or a tablet which you can happily&nbsp;take&nbsp;into an environment where you would&nbsp;rather&nbsp;not to carry an expensive device, then this budget tablet is worth considering. 
With retail packaging that pushes idea of summer (from Android coloured sunglasses to someone using the tablet out in the sun, with a&nbsp;jauntily angled hat on the main cover), the&nbsp;Acer Iconia&nbsp;One 7 Android tablet&nbsp;is pitched as a leisure&nbsp;device for the traveller.&nbsp;This is not the tablet to run your business from, but it is one that will allow you to check in while away, as well as keep track of your activities&nbsp;through the basic design.
	
								 
The mains charger in the box comes with UK and EU plugs (in the UK retail version), as well as a USB cable that connects the charger to the tablet (or the tablet to the PC). It’s a pretty standard setup, and while&nbsp;Acer has not put a huge amount of effort into the packaging, what there is does complement the&nbsp;design message of the tablet. 
Acer includes printed safety information, local&nbsp;warranty details, and international warranty details (back to the travelling motif again). What is not included is any detail on actually using the tablet. It’s assumed that anyone picking up this tablet will be well versed in Android and the on-screen information during the first booting experience will be sufficient to get them started.
								
										 
 
The Iconia One 7 is not going to win any awards for the specifications. Priced at &pound;110 in the UK or $129 in the US, the dual-core Intel processor runs at 1.6 GHz, there is 1 GB of RAM,&nbsp;with 16 GB of&nbsp;flash storage. The screen is a respectable for the price 1280&times;800 pixels. The battery is also smaller than you might expect at 3680 mAh. Rated as seven hours of&nbsp;use,&nbsp;which is a little bit on the short side, it’s&nbsp;one of the most notable trade-offs made to get the tablet down to the price that Acer wanted. 
This is not a tablet you are going to buy for performance or top-end speed. This&nbsp;feels like a runabout tablet. Much as you sportscar owners keep a Ford in the garage to drive&nbsp;down to the shops with, the&nbsp;Iconia One 7 feels like a tablet that you would be happy to sling into your backpack&nbsp;to have ‘something’ with you. I think this Acer design would be well-suited for camping trips, festival attendance, or indeed anywhere that you want a tablet that you don’t mind getting knocked about a bit. 
The Acer Iconia One 7 is your runabout tablet
										
										 
 
There’s no need to really push the specs out, because if&nbsp;Acer was&nbsp;to go that route, the price of the tablet would go up, and&nbsp;that would defeat the point. In the perfect world I think Acer would have liked the price to reach &pound;99 in the UK, but with the current technology that probably requires&nbsp;too much compromise in the specifications.&nbsp;Acer has a target&nbsp;for performance marked ‘acceptable’ and the decision to not&nbsp;go for the ultimate low price points is a wise one. 
Given the speed of development and manufacturing, there’s a chance that this tablet can reach that psychological price point by Christmas, at which point it&nbsp;should become attractive for impulse buyers and those looking for a second tablet. 
I wonder if&nbsp;one of the main contributions to the price is the volume of third-party applications that come pre-installed by Acer? Running Android 4.4.2 (after some over-the-air updates), the Iconia One 7 comes with the standard Google applications, including Google Drive, Gmail. Goole+, Google Maps, and the Google Play store to purchase and download third-party apps. 
It also comes with a significant number of third-party apps (including Booking.com, Audible, Zino, Accuweather, Amazon’s suite of Android apps, Evernote,&nbsp;Skype, and McAfee Security). That’s a nice spread of apps if you are starting out, but it does appear&nbsp;rather&nbsp;haphazard in the choices.&nbsp;It feels like Acer has went for the money available through a pre-installation program, than choosing a mix of applications that&nbsp;would improve the usability of the tablet. 
I’m disappointed that many of these applications cannot be uninstalled by the user without hacking into the tablet, getting root access, and resetting permissions. It may be the nature of the beast for&nbsp;a cheaper tablet, but it compromises the vision that Acer presumably has of a tablet that acts as a secondary slice of hardware. 
You are not going to get ultimate speed out of this tablet (unless your idea of ultimate speed is the sort of graphical performance a dual core 1.6 GHz Intel chip will deliver). While the puzzle games and head-scratchers of the Android world are all perfectly acceptable, go for the more graphically rich games and the&nbsp;middling performance of the tablet will be on display. If you are just looking for a tablet for checking&nbsp;mail, updating social networks, some decent web browsing (ie the sort of stuff a traveller would find great use of) then the lower specs of the tablet will not get in the way. 


 

 At &pound;110,&nbsp;it should not come as a surprise that the Iconia One 7 is an all-plastic construction. The front of the unit is all screen, there are no physical buttons. The standard Android on-screen buttons&nbsp;are there for the basic user interface controls, but all you have in terms of identity iOS the rather large Acer logo at the base of the screen.
 
There is an exposed MicroSD slot on the side of the unit, under the power and volume buttons.&nbsp;There is a 3.5 mm stereo headphone and microphone jack on the top of the tablet, as well as a microUSB socket for data&nbsp;connectivity and charging. Nothing out of the ordinary, but good to see that all the basic inputs&nbsp;and outputs are covered. 
The rear of the machine is given a mottled texture, with a series of slightly raised dots across the whole back plate. There’s no getting away that the tactile plastic sensation is strong, yet the dimples do allow for a better grip on the tablet. 
There are a dizzying number of tablets around the &pound;100 mark in the UK, and Acer hasn’t done a lot to stand out from the crowd. The standard Android UI&nbsp;matches many of the white-box tablets stocked&nbsp;by some retailers, and the basic design is nothing to write home about. That said, the&nbsp;performance is acceptable, the tablet is comfortable in the hand, and if you need a tablet just to have one kicking around, then there’s nothing that&nbsp;should stop you buying&nbsp;Acer’s tablet. 
Disclosure: Acer&nbsp;UK&nbsp;provided an Iconia One 7&nbsp;on loan for review purposes. 

 
 Click for full photo gallery: Best Apps For Entrepreneurs On The Go