GE Direct Write: 3D Inking Intelligent Sensors GE Direct Write: 3D Inking Intelligent Sensors 3D printing is often called Additive Manufacturing by those in the industry. If you think about how traditional manufacturing methods work, you take a block of something and mill away, or subtract, the surfaces until you have a finished product. With 3D printing, you do the opposite, adding layers of plastic or metal or ceramic (or one of many other materials) until you build a product with little waste. 
Most of the parts or products created with a 3D printer are not “thinking” products or parts that have a brain, or a sensor. In a recent visit to GE, the Global Research team took me through a number of new concepts and technologies that they are developing. One of the most interesting is one they call: Direct Write. This development would allow you to create more intelligent 3D printed parts — such as sensors.
	
								 
Like&nbsp;3D printing, which has been around since the mid-1980s, Direct Write is not new. The technology is about 15 years old and is the outcome of a DARPA program called MICE (here’s a mouthful: Mesoscopic Integrated Conformal Electronics). DARPA is so often involved in technology innovations that it sometimes astounds me. I visited their press page to get an idea of their scope; it is a lengthy page, to say the least. 
 
GE has a good video that explains how it works and I’ve inserted it above. But if you look at this method as an automated pen, a very fine ball point pen perhaps, that can deposit or place material onto a surface, layer by layer, you get the idea that it would be ideal for tiny, fine-featured items like a sensor. As one of the GE folks told me – do you ever wonder why cell phones no longer have antennas (that you can see)? Because you can “direct write” or put that antenna into the cell phone itself.
								
										 
As you start to consider the Internet of Things, you can see all kinds of uses for this technology. You could embed intelligence within the smallest devices, with sensors printed in tiny, hard to reach places of a device (so as not to take up otherwise important space). GE gave me plenty of aerospace examples where you might print a sensor into a wing or engine to measure temperature or strain, for instance. 
In a similar development, the MIT Technology Review reported on a PARC (a Xerox Company) research project to print “chiplets” by chopping up computer chip wafers, putting them in an “ink” and then electrostatically positioning them on a substrate. Chip-infused inks. 
3D printing allows manufacturers to reduce waste, in some cases, but it also will allow makers to print circuits and sensors to reduce downtime or catch an engine or motor as it show signs of wear. As they told me on my visit, they are even putting these tiny Direct Write printed sensors into jet engines. GE calls some of this direction: “Brilliant Machines” and it certainly seems to up the ante in additive manufacturing.
										
										 
Currently I am traveling around the USA on an 8-month roadtrip (in a bright blue RV) exploring 3D printing, 3D scanning, and 3D design. You can follow me on Twitter or at 3DRV.com.