Despite low price, TV not a bargain Despite low price, TV not a bargain If a 50-inch, full-HD TV for a hair under $600 seems like a good deal, it's only because there might not be a worse 50-inch full-HD TV on the market today than the TCL 50FS5600 (MSRP $599.99). Without a smart platform to speak of, and burdened by a variety of technical woes, there's almost nothing positive to say about the FS5600.Based on the panel's size and price, it's clearly aimed at budget shoppers in need of big TVs — but the performance doesn't even satisfy entry-level standards. Be aware: There are much better options on the market.The TV's appearance is disappointingly bland. It sports charcoal-on-black plastic and a run-of-the-mill remote control. The menu software also fails to impress, as it lacks smart features or extensive customization options. This is probably for the best, though, because navigating the menu is often an exercise in trial and error.When watching a movie on the FS5600, the first thing you'll notice is just how poor its color production is. Skin tones, foliage and clouds are tinged with blue. Nature documentaries in particular will look "off." It's not unusual for lower-end TVs to struggle with blue-, green- or red-shifted color palettes, but the FS5600 is especially bad in this regard. Even the most casual viewers will notice something is amiss with this TV's color.Despite the FS5600's respectable black level, shadows still appear flat and nondescript. The glossed-over details are a result of the TV's luminance handling, which turns darker regions of a picture into swaths of muddied, homogeneous goop. Instead of conveying a convincing, deep-looking scene, this panel's images appear flat and unrealistic.Even more off-putting is the FS5600's inability to display smooth, fluid motion. It's not unheard of for TVs to struggle with motion, but the FS5600 is downright nightmarish in this regard. The motion is strobe-like — the flailing arms in a sword fight look more flip-bookish than cinematic.This TV has very little going for it: It lacks smart features, struggles with shoddy motion, and displays very skewed color. The flaws are deep enough to miff even nonchalant viewers, and no bargain price is worth that.Should you happen to be in the market for a TV of this size, there are much more palatable options. Vizio's 48-inch E480i-B2 sports vastly superior image quality, for instance, and even costs $10 less than this FS5600.