AnandTech founder puts down the pen, joins Apple AnandTech founder puts down the pen, joins Apple 
                

   					
                     
                       
                   
        			If you've been enjoying some of the words spewing from Anand Lal Shimpi over at AnandTech, you might be missing it from now on. The founder of the website, known and loved for its in-depth analysis of computing hardware and, later on, devices, has announced his retirement from tech writing. He isn't, however, reclusing himself totally from the tech world, as he will now be working for Apple.If you've ever tried to assemble  your own PC, especially for a gaming rig, you will have run into the AnandTech website a couple of times. The site prides itself for offering readers very detailed, sometimes excruciatingly so, information about processors, video cards, memory, storage, and the like. Eventually, the site blossomed into consumer hardware as well, tackling devices you don't need to assemble to use, like laptops, smartphones, tablets, and basically anything that has a computer in them, whatever the size. However, after 17 years of being at it, Shimpi is calling it quits.It isn't because he's burned out or tired. He does desire a change. But that change won't be taking him away from the tech industry completely. While Shimpi didn't explicitly mention it, word is that he has been hired by Apple, a fact that was actually confirmed by one of Cuptertino's press liaisons. That said, as with many such high-profile hires, details of the exact nature of Shimpi's new job are scarce, if not totally non-existent. With the knowledge he has amassed over the course of running AnandTech, it wouldn't be hard to imagine that he will be involved with engineering on some level.AnandTech fans need not despair, of course. The site has grown considerably since its founding in 1997 and has gained writers and editorial staff that have proven themselves capable of rising to the occasion. AnandTech will indeed continue to operate as usual. It will now be headed by Ryan Smith, who has been with the site for 10 years and who Shimpi has been grooming for the past years to take over the reins.SOURCE: AnandTech
VIA: Re/code