Border Meltdown: Obama Delivering 290,000 Illegals To U.S. Homes Border Meltdown: Obama Delivering 290,000 Illegals To U.S. Homes The vast majority of 50,000 unaccompanied youths and children who have illegally crossed the Texas border during the last few months have been successfully delivered by federal agencies to their relatives living in the United States, according to a New York Times article.
A second New York Times article report revealed that officials have caught  Central American migrants since April, and are transporting many of them to their destinations throughout the United States.
The 290,000 illegals &#8212; so far &#8212; are exploiting legal loopholes that allow them to get temporary permits to stay in the United States.
Experts say that President Barack Obama’s administration has failed to close the loopholes and is unlikely to deport more than a small percentage of the illegals, despite the high unemployment rates among American Latino, African-American and white youths, and the strapped budgets of many cities and towns.
The president&#8217;s policy has caused protests by frightened citizens in towns such as Murrieta. But Obama&#8217;s allies &#8212; such as La Raza, an ethnic lobby for Latinos &#8212; are eager to escalate the conflict and to paint the protestors as racists. Those protests may escalate before the November elections.
The Central American parents of the 50,000 youths and children are using a 2008 law to ensure their children are transported to them  of border patrol and Department of Health and Human Services officials. The youths are delivered to the border patrol by smugglers, dubbed coyotes, in exchange for several thousand dollars.
Half of the 50,000 Central American youths were delivered by taxpayer-funded employees directly to their parents now living in the United States, and another third were delivered to people who said they were close relatives, said the July 3 article.
That new data was included in the 19th paragraph of a 20-paragraph .

Top immigration officials choose to not check if the relatives or parents who pick up the children are in the country legally.
Both New York Times articles described the border-crossing illegal aliens as “immigrants.” In fact, “immigrants” is the term for people who legally migrate into the United States.
The 240,000 strong-group largely consists of many mothers and young children, most of whom are now being flown and bussed to destinations near where they wish to settle. That new 240,000 number was included in the seventh paragraph of a 24-paragraph article.
Few of the illegal immigrants are high-school graduates, or have skills that would allow them to earn more than they cost to federal, state and local taxpayers.
Officials have not said where they’ve delivered the adults or youth illegals, but pro-American activists are keeping track of some locations, including San Diego, Calif.
Officials have defended the administration’s catch-and-release policy, which critics say is inviting more Central Americans to cross the border in the hope of being arrested by the border patrol.
“When you have a noncriminal [border-crossing ] mother, they are going to be released,” David Jennings, the head of the Immigrations and Customs Enforcement agency in southern California. “The most humane way to deal with this is to find out where they are going and get them there,” he said at a town meeting held in Murrieta, Calif., according .
