A Drone Flew Over Apple's New Campus And What It Saw Was Amazing A Drone Flew Over Apple's New Campus And What It Saw Was Amazing A fantastic new video was recently posted to YouTube, showing stunning aerial images of Apple’s new “under construction” campus in Cupertino, California. &nbsp;The video reveals the scale of the facility, which is truly massive. 
The operator filmed the campus using a DJI Phantom 2 equipped with a GoPro Hero 3+ Black Edition. &nbsp;The operator seems pretty responsible too, claiming to have flown under 400 feet and not within any airport no fly zones. &nbsp;&nbsp;(Someday the flight might be considered an aerial trespass, but as it currently stands, California statutes do not treat low altitude flights as a trespass and the operation didn’t appear to interfere with the property owner’s use of their land).
	
								 
 
Fellow Forbes staff member Brian Caufield has written about&nbsp;Apple’s new campus he describes some of the features:  
1)&nbsp;It has a secret passage&nbsp;— To be sure, it’s not much of a secret if everyone knows about it; but the underground passage leading from the main building to a spectacular new underground auditorium will allow Apple’s leaders to stroll onto the main stage without having to deal with the press. Apple Chief Executive&nbsp;Tim Cook&nbsp;said last week that he was ‘doubling down on secrecy.’
								
										 
2)&nbsp;It’s quake proof&nbsp;— Base isolators situated beneath the buildings foundation will help the massive building sway as the earth moves, minimizing the damage from a major earthquake. Many of the region’s hospitals, fire houses, and police stations are being equipped with similar systems — which should let the buildings continue to function after the ‘big one’ hits. 
&nbsp;3)&nbsp;It has its own food supply&nbsp;– Apple’s new campus will be a glass and steel marvel. It will also be a working farm. While Apple’s campus at 1 Infinite Loop is decorated by a smattering of cherry trees, Apple’s new building will contain hundreds of cherry, apricot, plum, olive, and apple trees. The cherry trees surrounding the entrance to Apple’s new underground auditorium will put on a spectacular show every spring. Groves of Apple and plum trees at the center of Apple’s campus will produce plenty of food. 
Some of the excavation for these features can be seen in the video as can the general circular shape of the structure, walls for gardens and patios, and the overall size of the high tech campus. 
										
										
Gregory S. McNeal&nbsp;is a professor specializing in law and public policy.&nbsp; You can follow him on&nbsp;Twitter @GregoryMcNeal&nbsp;or on&nbsp;Facebook.