The Gamer Is Dead: Long Live The Gamer The Gamer Is Dead: Long Live The Gamer I used to write about politics. 
There’s a scene filled with vitriol and awfulness. But at least it’s always—or nearly always—pretty easy to tell which side most people are on, even those largely claiming to not take sides.
	
								 
Even so, after enough time spent in those trenches one can easily become disillusioned with the available options. The game is about winning, and if you’re mostly interested in ways to make the world a little less cruel, pretty soon you realize that all the teams are rotten. 
I’m too free market for a lot of liberals, too socially progressive for conservatives, too sympathetic to things like government healthcare for the libertarians, too anti-war for either of the major American political parties. I don’t like being defined by a term that’s designed to place me in a box, like “liberal” or “conservative” or “leftist” or whatever. It speaks to what I am supposed to believe, not who I am or what I do with my life.
								
										 
So maybe I should be happy with all the recent proclamations from various video game writers in the past few days that “gamer” as a term and as an identity is, miraculously, dead and irrelevant now. 
But I’m not, actually. 
Gamer has always been one of the more positive tags I’ve used for myself, along with “musician” and “writer” and “lover” and “father” and so forth. Unlike terms like “liberal” or “Democrat” being a gamer or a musician isn’t about what you believe, it’s about what you do. 
To be a gamer is to play games. If anyone tries to define it further, to place some cultural significance on the word, all they’re doing is playing politics. Dragging the culture wars into everything.
										
										 
Both “sides” do this. 
It takes two to go to war. 
I, Gamer 
 
I’m a gamer. It’s one thing I do. I don’t accept it as the core of my “culture.” Some of my friends are gamers; many are not. My life is defined by lots of things, as is my community. Gaming is part of it but not the epicenter. 
Of course, there are gamers who identify more deeply with the term, in a way that some motorcycle bikers identify strongly as “bikers” and as a part of biker culture, or some people self-identify as “nerds” and members of nerd culture. And it is likely these gamers that have drawn the ire of the gaming press in the wake of this latest inside-baseball scandal. 
Some of this group of self-identifying gamers are indeed bad apples. As video games and other hallmarks of so-called nerd culture have gone mainstream, some of the most die-hard occupants of the culture have circled the wagons. Some even issue death threats or rape threats to female developers and writers, or engage in other types of harassment, because they see feminism and its proponents as an existential threat to not just their hobby, but their identity. 
Some of these gamers really do hold deeply sexist viewpoints, which makes writing what I’m writing now somewhat precarious. I am not an ally to misogynists, but I’m not impressed by many of their critics either. 
But bad apples do not create an identity for an entire group of people, and critics and journalists who attempt to destroy a word in the name of politics are not furthering some noble goal, some cultural evolutionary step. As if by&nbsp;proclamation&nbsp;anyone could declare a word dead to begin with. 
  I stopped writing about politics because I got to a point where all I wanted to say in every post is “You’re all wrong! All of you!” 
After all, how can liberals defend Obama’s use of military force in Libya after electing him largely as a symbolic rebuttal of Bush’s wars? When I spoke up against it, team Obama was up in arms. And how can libertarians really ever write about anything other than an end to violence? How can they concern themselves with any issue beyond violence and war? Until those issues are tackled none of the rest of the anti-big-government crusade matters. At all. And so on and so forth. 
But I believe in ending cruelty first and foremost. And politics is a machine that all too often thrives on cruelty and deception. 
I thought writing about games would be different, but it’s not. It’s the same cultural politics that exist everywhere else, only the lingo is changed, the battle lines are vague and poorly defined. Half of the problem in this debate is blurry definitions. 
And now in this latest scandal I just want to say the same thing: “You’re all wrong! All of you!” 
Because it’s true. 
You are all wrong. 
 
So about these journalists proclaiming the end of “gamers.” It’s quite reminiscent of the&nbsp;Mass Effect 3 days, when “gamer” was still an okay word but only if you prefaced it with “entitled.” Somehow a bunch of game writers decided it was okay to blanket judge wide swaths of readership. 
I’m not above critiquing my readers. I think they deserve critique just as harshly as the press and the industry itself. But it is odd when you see nearly a dozen articles within a 24 hour period pop up declaring the&nbsp;annihilation&nbsp;of an identity. It reeks of the worst sort of identity politics. 
Video game writer Leigh Alexander writes that the term gamer “isn’t just a dated demographic label that most people&nbsp;increasingly prefer not to use. Gamers are over. That’s why they’re so mad.” 
Writes Alexander: “‘Games culture’ is a petri dish of people who know so little about how human social interaction and professional life works that they can concoct online ‘wars’ about social justice or ‘game journalism ethics,’ straight-faced, and cause genuine human consequences. Because of video games.” 
Beyond the inflammatory rhetoric here, Alexander is making some good points about the shifting industry and culture, and a move toward greater diversity and tolerance, and a broader definition of what it means to be a game writer in the first place. 
But she’s doing it in a weird way—attacking the idea of being a gamer just because a minority of those people engage in harassment and misogyny. I’d be willing to bet that most gamers, most people who consider themselves gamers, don’t even read most gaming websites. A majority are likely unaware of the culture war being fought in this space. These are gamers. They are part of this nebulous culture. So why do we continue to only focus on the worst elements of our hobby, and why do we allow them to define it for us? 
Is it to perpetuate the war? 
Critic Dan Golding echoes Alexander, writing that “When videogames changed, the gamer identity did not stretch, and so it has been broken” adding that while “the&nbsp;‘consumer king’&nbsp;gamer will continue to be targeted and exploited while their profitability as a demographic outweighs their toxicity, the traditional gamer identity is now culturally irrelevant.” 
Kotaku’s Luke Plunkett clarifies what these critiques mean to him: “Note they’re not talking about everyone who plays games, or who self-identifies as a “gamer”, as being the&nbsp;worst,” he writes.&nbsp;”It’s being used in these cases as short-hand, a catch-all term for the type of reactionary holdouts that feel so threatened by gaming’s widening horizons. If you call yourself a “ gamer” and are a cool person, keep on being a cool person.” 
Just be careful if you use the term gamer because, you know, guilt by association. 
Language is powerful. Language is the source of power in any culture, and writers of all people should know this. Using the term “gamer” this way as a “catch-all term” for “reactionary holdouts” invariably casts too wide a net. It sounds disdainful. It perpetuates a stereotype. And it perpetuates the war. 
Gamers are guilty, too. 
 
Then again, plenty of gamers perpetuate this stereotype on their own without any help. The truly bad apples—ones issuing death threats and such—may be only a small sliver of the pie, but there’s a much larger and very vocal contingent that continues to taint virtually every legitimate debate in the industry, over media ethics, industry business practices, etc. with identity politics. 
These are the anti Social Justice Warriors, gamers who obsess over members of the video game press who are perceived to be foisting a socially progressive agenda on the industry. 
I’ve said this before and I’ll say it again: This focus on Social Justice Warrios (SJWs) is damaging your ability to effectively challenge any real ethical issues in the press or bad business practices in the industry. Some of the strongest critics of poor industry practices, like The Escapist’s Jim Sterling, are on a Social Justice Warrior blacklist put together by the anti-SJW folks. 
It’s absurd. It has very nearly convinced me that most of these gamers truly don’t care about ethics or business issues, and just use these issues to fuel their crusade against feminists. I’m still trying to see both sides of the issue, but the laser focus on SJWs makes it increasingly difficult. 
You see, if you don’t like identity politics you have to stop playing the game. You have to lay down your weapons. That’s the only way to win. 
Are there may be some people exploiting these issues for fame and clique? Yes, it’s quite possible. Signaling is enormously important to many people; half of all political blogging is just signaling to members of your own tribe how much you belong. 
But I also guarantee you that if I wrote an article tomorrow about something I genuinely believed was sexist, I’d get the Social Justice Warrior/White Knight treatment in a flash. It’s happened before. So what should I do? 
Should I just never talk about issues that are important to me because a vocal group of gamers will berate me over it? That’s crazy. That’s self-censorship based out of fear of reprisal. 
Anti-SJW folks say that they despise SJWs because SJWs don’t allow conversation, stifle debate, and make it impossible for more than one viewpoint to be heard. But the same can be said in reverse. I’m unable to talk about social issues I care about without a backlash. 
Oh but wait, a developer on&nbsp;Divinity: Original Sin&nbsp;was bullied into changing part of their game because of Social Justice Warriors concern-trolling him. So what? That’s one example. I’m sure there are others. 
And I can just as easily find examples of gamers threatening to kill Anita Sarkeesian. Anecdotal evidence is irrelevant. If all we had was anecdotal evidence, we could write a bunch of articles declaring the death of the gamer. There comes a certain point where all this fighting and squabbling just serves to further the very narrow self-interest of particular people and groups of people on both sides of the issue. 
I find it all very ugly and upsetting. 
Because I think these issues, issues of social justice and equality, are really important. And I also believe that the market will prove that, and that we can mostly just relax and let the market do its bloody business. That’s why social issues aren’t the core of my video game writing. But that doesn’t mean there isn’t room for discussion. That doesn’t mean there can’t be games for everyone. A place at the table for everyone—or at least everyone other than the really bad apples. 
I agree that game writers shouldn’t be so quick to call everything sexist, that the message should be more positive rather than negative. But I think people are too riled up over cultural critics and commenters like Anita Sarkeesian, who are just one voice among many. 
Bring me a chorus of voices, of opinions. I want them all. I want a loud&nbsp;cacophony&nbsp;of differing viewpoints. Agreement is the death of creativity. 
But you? You all want to shut everyone else down who doesn’t conform to your worldview. You ask for “unbiased” but what you really want is an echo chamber. You ask for “objectivity” and then celebrate the entirely subjective and unaccountable monologues of YouTube commenters. You want to make a living writing about video games and then declare, from on high, that gamers are over. 
Which is why you’re all wrong. Each and every one of you. I may be wrong, too. It’s entirely possible. 
Let us pray. 
 
Blogger Ariel Connor has a neat post about this whole #GamerGate kerfuffle. She recalls one of her favorite moments in gaming. And because she says so much of what I want to say, I’m going to take the liberty of quoting her at length:  

 So without further ado, I’m going to talk about my favourite computer game moment of all time. It comes from a lovely game called ‘Earthbound’ on the SNES, so if you haven’t played it and don’t want it spoiled, don’t read on. At the very end of the game, during the final battle against Giygas, the evil alien that is threatening the future of mankind, it isn’t some kind of macho brutality that ultimately wins the battle in the end. It isn’t overlevelling your characters, min-maxing, getting the best weapons or ‘rescuing the princess’ that destroys evil. It’s cooperation. And fittingly, it’s cooperation that is brought about by the power of a woman: Paula, a party member who joins Ness on his journey early on in the story and remains at his side to the bitter end. 
 When I think of strong women in gaming, I don’t think of Lara Croft, or Samus Aran, or even Bayonetta. I think of Paula. Paula possesses a unique ability known as ‘Pray’, which during the game serves only to heal everyone’s health a little. A little morale booster. It’s an ability that most people forget about by the end of the game (at least I did) and certainly not a power that you would be worried about using against the ultimate evil. But in order to defeat Giygas, you have to Pray. You have to Pray so that all of the characters you have met on your journey, some of whom may have even antagonised you, lend you their strength. You have to Pray because outright aggression simply will not work. You have to Pray because you can’t do it alone, no matter how strong you think you are. And when you Pray, all of the people you have met on your travels hear your plea, and you become united. 
 This iconoclastic, doomsday rhetoric will only serve to copper-fasten the boundaries that have been thrown up between ‘misogynerds’ and ‘social justice warriors,’ two utterly fatuous labels. Journalists, instead of dividing up your audience and stoking the flames of conflict, you should be bringing people together. It’s disingenuous to stereotype gamers just as it is disingenuous for gamers to attack women. Whoever sent out death threats to a woman just because they disagree with her should be arrested and jailed, not used as a springboard for an intellectually dishonest whitewash. 
 All of this toxicity, this rhetoric, this bile, is our Giygas. We can’t beat it by infighting. We can’t do any side quests for some ultimate weapon in the social justice crusade. I have tears in my eyes as I write this because the answers have been around for years. I saw them in the soft glow of an old CRT television all those years ago, when Paula, near death and without any apparent hope, sent out her plea: 
 “Please give us strength, if it is possible. Please…somebody…help us…”
 
I’m tired of fighting wars all the time. 
I’m tired of fighting. 
I was tired of fighting before I even started writing about video games. 
Somehow we need to grow up and move on and be better than all of this. I’m not even going to say “because it’s just video games” because I think video games are a kind of art, and I believe art and music and entertainment are among the most crucial things in life. They may not rank as high as food and shelter in our pyramid of needs, but without them I wonder if food and shelter would be worth much. 
You are all wrong. But I won’t destroy your home worlds just yet. 
I’m going to write about video games. Because that’s what I do. 
I don’t have the answers. We have to figure it out together. 
Follow me on&nbsp;Twitter&nbsp;or&nbsp;Facebook.&nbsp;Read my Forbes&nbsp;blog&nbsp;here.