A Trio of Cars No One Should Be Forced to Drive Every Day A Trio of Cars No One Should Be Forced to Drive Every Day 
Groundhog Day is this Saturday, and while the event conjures up the Bill Murray film, truth is, most of our days are that. It’s the same soup, different pot. Every day, wake-up, shower, eat, work, gym, eat, sleep, repeat. Sometimes there are moments that make the day worth it, but things are quite repetitive. Thankfully, making the commute in a decent car can improve any day.

Unfortunately, some car designers either don’t understand this fact or have highly stressful jobs that drive them to substance abuse.  Those are the only possible explanations for the three rolling embarrassments that follow.   Who in their right mind would want to drive these things for a day, much less every day for a lifetime?
Smart ForTwo:

Okay, we get it.  Oil won’t last forever, gas is bloody expensive and pumping pollution into the air isn’t very nice to Mother Nature. So it’s fine if automakers turn out vehicles with more emphasis on MPG than muscle.  With today’s pump prices, 50 miles per gallon almost makes up for bland styling and 0-60 acceleration in 5.7 minutes.

Supposedly, that’s the justification behind the “Smart” Car.  Problem is, this vehicle is just plain dumb. It’s overpriced, burns premium fuel and looks like a chopped-off roller skate. Worst of all, the 35 MPG it averages is less than what a 4-cylinder Honda Accord can get these days.
The Pontiac Aztek:

The real tragedy is that the Aztek is not a bad vehicle. In fact, if I had to drive on icy roads, it would be my first pick. It’s incredibly stable and pretty reliable.
It is also ugly as homemade sin. Edmunds.com was justified in naming it one of the 100 most hideous autos of all time. Driving this thing for life would have driven to Mother Theresa drink. Even saints can only take so much.
The AMC Gremlin:

This abomination on wheels takes the cake.  They should sentence greedy bankers to driving them for the rest of their days. If that didn’t boost the economy, then nothing would. So in preparation for Groundhog Day, consider and appreciate the fact that your daily driver isn’t the worst place to be for repeated commutes. Looking at these three vehicles, it could be MUCH worse.