​Iliad allies could sweeten bid to buy T-Mobile USA ​Iliad allies could sweeten bid to buy T-Mobile USA Iliad founder Xavier Niel speaks in 2014.Iliad, a French company with growing businesses as an Internet service provider and mobile operator, said Monday it's working with partners to make a more lucrative bid for T-Mobile USA.Deutsche Telekom wants to sell its majority stake in the US subsidiary but rejected a July 31 offer of $15 billion, or $33 per share, reportedly signaling that $35 per share would be better received.Now Iliad Chief Financial Officer Thomas Reynaud said at a Paris press conference that Iliad's offer "could evolve." Iliad is in talks with partners that could raise the total bid, Reuters reported. Iliad would limit its investment to $15 billion and settle for a smaller share, Reynaud indicated. Iliad shareholders in effect expressed skepticism about the wisdom of the deal, sending Iliad stock down 8.8 percent Monday to €152.45 ($200.20).If the deal should eventually go through, it could reshape the US mobile market. T-Mobile USA already positions itself as the "un-carrier," the mobile operator that behaves in customer-friendly ways while its rivals do the opposite, but Iliad's French network operator, Free Mobile, has in some ways been more ambitious.Iliad's Paris headquarters sport the Free brand used for its ISP and carrier businesses.Iliad launched Free Mobile in January 2012 with two aggressively priced  offers: €2 ($2.63) per month for 120 minutes of calls, 50MB of 3G or 4G  data, and unlimited text messages or €20 ($26.26) per month for  unlimited calls and text messages, and 20GB of data. The prices drop to  free and €16, respectively, for customers of Free's broadband Internet  service, and Free shares T-Mobile USA's fondness for plans that don't  require long-term commitments. On the broadband front, Iliad's Free  division includes 180 TV channels and has been pushing to move its  customer base to fast fiber-optic infrastructure.In its report Friday of financial results for the first half or 2014, Iliad reported it increased Free Mobile subscribers from 8 million in December 2013 to 9.1 million June 2014. That's only enough to give it 13 percent share of the French market, but it also accounted for 65 percent of the net total of new subscriptions for the period.Its broadband business grew much more slowly, with subscribers increasing from 5.6 million to 5.7 million. Overall, Iliad's revenue grew 10 percent to €2.02 billion ($2.65), but its profit dropped 1 percent to €140 million ($184 million).Iliad logoFor its part, T-Mobile USA in July posted a $391 million profit for it second quarter and attracted new customers. However, without a spectrum licensing deal with rival Verizon, it would have posted a loss.CNET contacted Iliad and Deutsche Telekom for comment and will update this post with their comments.T-Mobile USA has been in play for years, with regulators squashing AT&amp;T's attempted acquisition and a bid from Sprint owner SoftBank rumored for months.