EMC A Leader In Mobile App UI Innovation? Who Knew? EMC A Leader In Mobile App UI Innovation? Who Knew? Mobile devices have created a renaissance for user interface designers that are simultaneously trying to exploit their attributes of tactile, high-resolution screens accessible in any situation, while mitigating their drawbacks of limited screen real estate, lack of a physical keyboard and a single app per screen focus. Together, these create both opportunities and challenges for application developers. With at least 1.2 million titles on Apple’s App Store having been collectively downloaded over 75 billion times, and Google’s Android Play Store reporting nearly identical numbers, it’s clear mobile apps are big business with a huge audience. 
Ironically, such huge numbers can actually stifle app adoption through some combination of the Paradox of Choice, i.e. consumer anxiety over selecting just the right app, Paralysis by Analysis, namely a fixation on finding the perfect app to the point of not actually choosing any, or a wariness to learn a new app with new controls, gestures and settings. In this scenario, much like a mixer at big convention, first impressions matter and for mobile apps that’s the UI. Grab someone with an alluring, intuitive interface and you’ve likely got them hooked for an extended trial.
	
								 
App Aesthetics: Hard to Define, but Easily Recognized 
We’re all familiar with clunky, first-generation mobile apps that resembled shrunken Web sites with all the appeal of cold leftovers the morning after a big party. However we’re far enough into the mobile era to have many examples of elegant, creative and mobile-focused apps that capitalize on the platform’s strengths by enabling users to do things in intuitive new ways while mitigating the platform’s weaknesses by focusing controls and information displays to that relevant for a particular task or creatively using touch zones and gestures for access to navigational controls and access to ancillary information.
								
										 
Still, it is hard to systematically define what constitutes a “good” mobile app. Much like pornography: you know it when you see it. While app marketplaces, whether Apple’s, Google’s or others’, curate a few featured apps, the key differentiator between something you want to try and that is so engaging it becomes part of your daily app routine, is often the UI. More so than perhaps any other platform, for phones and tablets, elegant, engaging, effective and easily used app interfaces are no accident; they requires an enormous amount of thought, design and attention to detail. 
 
Apple’s not the Only One Building Beautiful Apps 
Apple is the benchmark against which app developers are measured and in recent years, several popular titles like Flipboard, Facebook Paper, Fantastical, SugarSync, Vine and others have demonstrated how best to use a small touch screen via intuitive gestures, graphics, pop-up hints and workflow structure. While Apple and a few standout developers may be best known for elegant apps, few people would associate a division of EMC, the storage hardware provider to enterprise IT, more known for its big iron hardware than mobile app finesse, as one of today’s most innovative mobile developers. Yet give the company’s Syncplicity title a spin and tell me it’s not one of the slickest, most well-designed, intuitive and beautiful apps you’ve seen.
										
										 
 
Not surprisingly, the inspiration, brains and software talent behind Syncplicity didn’t originate from a skunkworks EMC division, but via acquisition of an innovative file sync developer that also has some serious mobile app design chops. But credit to EMC management that they have allowed Syncplicity to operate relatively autonomously from their Silicon Valley home, not forced to relocate to EMC’s East Coast home and forced into its bureaucratic structure. Yet the head of the Syncplicity business unit, Jeetu Patel, doesn’t hail from the Silicon Valley startup culture, but was an EMC executive who was instrumental in the Syncplicity acquisition. But spend some time with Patel, as I did last week at VMworld, and his passion for the mobile platform and design elegance is palpable. Indeed, Patel, who travels the globe as an ambassador for Syncplicity has made mobile devices the center of his tool chest, typically only carrying an iPhone, iPad and some video connectors in his bag as he makes presentations and demonstrates the product. The man clearly puts his money where his mouth is. 
 
Syncplicity’s Design and Attention to Detail Worthy of Emulation 
Get Patel going on the beauty, elegance and utility of his UI and it’s easy to think you’re talking to Steve Jobs reincarnate. Here is a man who obsesses over pixels and will reject meetings from subordinates if their slide presentations are confusing, sloppy or just unattractive. You’d better have a crisp, clean and visually appealing pitch when you talk business at Syncplicity. 
The attention to design, both large things like navigational controls and small, down to the pictures used on one’s localized home screen, are readily apparent in the Syncplicity app and indeed are the qualities that distinguish all compelling mobile apps. You are greeted by a picturesque home screen displaying curated photos depending on your location. Swipe up and you’re presented with a top-level menu, tastefully overlaid on the app canvas, with key tasks. Other functions are likewise well thought out down to the 3D parallax representation when horizontally swiping from one screen to another. Indeed compare the Syncplicity app to competing file sharing titles from Dropbox, Google (Drive) or Microsoft (OneDrive) and the difference is obvious. 
 
App design is important for several reasons. Not only is a visually appealing app with carefully designed controls, gestures and workflow easier to use, it’s easier to master since hidden or more advanced features can be selectively exposed and intuitively displayed, say with overlays or interface hints. Furthermore, beautiful apps are just more fun to use meaning you’re likely to spend more time in them, developing proficiency as you go, eventually integrating them into your daily workflow and routine. 
  Still Plenty of Work Perfecting Mobile UIs 
Although people like Jakob Nielsen have been preaching the gospel of application usability and design for years, the gap between something like the Syncplicity, Eventbrite or Flipboard apps and the host of mediocre and just plain ugly apps littering the various app marketplaces illustrates that the message hasn’t gotten through. Partly, as my conversation with Patel made clear, designing and building an excellent UI is hard work requiring expertise in several disciplines: graphic design, human factors, system and workflow planning and of course coding. My hope is that&nbsp;stylish and usable apps like Syncplicity’s and others will exert positive peer pressure on the rest of the mobile development community to collectively improve their wares and usher in a new era of app design excellence. 
&nbsp;