Ask LH: How Can I Get A Reference When My Boss And Co-Workers Are Dead? Ask LH: How Can I Get A Reference When My Boss And Co-Workers Are Dead? 
Dear Lifehacker, What can you do if you have no work referees for a potential employer? I lost my current position after four months, due to major differences with the manager, so I can&#8217;t use him as a referee. Prior to that I worked for a small team for seven years &#8212; but three of them, including the manager, were killed in a car accident. That means there is no one that can vouch for my work to any employer. Any ideas? Thanks, Reference Not Foun
Photo: Shutterstock
Dear RNF,
Bloody hell, that&#8217;s rough!
Were your dearly departed colleagues part of a larger company? If so, I imagine you would have no issues securing a referee from upper management. Given the circumstances, they should be more than willing to write you a reference. As an added bonus, you&#8217;ll probably get to write it yourself, especially if they never worked with you directly.   
If it was a small business with just a few employees, you could always mention the tragedy during job interviews to explain why you don&#8217;t have any references from that workplace. I assume this event was covered by local media, so it shouldn&#8217;t be hard for them to Google it. 
Other than that, our advice is to track down semi-relevant professionals who you can trust to vouch for you. These people don&#8217;t necessarily have to be from within the same industry. They just need to talk knowledgeably about your professionalism and character. As a general rule, try to concentrate on people who hold a senior position in their line of work and who you know reasonably well.     
Securing a written reference can also help in certain industries. This also allows you to review their testimonial and ensure everything important is covered. Again, you don&#8217;t have to restrict your referees to the relevant industry: instead, get them to highlight skills and strengths that carry across multiple sectors. (Being a quick learner, getting along well with others, putting in the hard yards, etc.)
When it comes to showing off industry-specific skills, there are more options than relying on referees. One popular approach is to write a blog which can then be included on your resume. At the very least, this will show a real passion for the line work you&#8217;re applying for. You can find some tips on starting your own website or blog here.
On a final note, try not to worry too much about this. While a good reference can help your chances, it&#8217;s not the be-all and end-all of your resume. An applicant’s referee list is rarely the deciding factor in a hiring decision, especially for non-senior positions. It&#8217;s far more important to craft a resume that emphasises relevant experience and previous work achievements. Follow our Resumes tag for a dizzying array of tips. 
If any readers have additional ideas on how to ace job interviews without a reference, share your tips with RNF in the comments section below. 
See also: Ask LH: How Can I Build A Resume When I Have Nothing To Put On It?  
Cheers
Lifehacker
Got your own question you want to put to Lifehacker? Send it using our contact form.