GE Artistry offers fridge with flair GE Artistry offers fridge with flair GE's ABE20EGEBS (MSRP $1,199) is part of its larger Artistry series, imagined by the "artist behind the Artistry," Tomas DeLuna, a young industrial designer. His goal was to bring retro-chic back to the modern kitchen, but at a more reasonable price point than what's available now.For hundreds less than many other full-blown retro products, you get 50's touches like rounded edges, matte colors, and large, reversible metal handles. The aesthetic is clean—not gaudy. That means even young Millennials—like, notably, DeLuna himself—can stylize their kitchens without emptying their savings accounts in the process.Even though they're designed to stir up images of your grandparents' old icebox, the retro elements of the Artistry fridge actually work well with everyday use: The horizontal handles are placed high enough that opening the door felt easy and natural, without forcing us to stoop, plus chrome really pops against the black finish.On the inside, you'll find an otherwise-basic GE bottom freezer. Full-width shelves don't offer as much customizability as half-width ones, but they're still relatively light for easy removal and cleaning. The freezer uses wire shelves, so make sure any bags of frozen vegetables don't have rips that could lead to an avalanche of peas. Both sections have plenty of supplemental door storage, but none of it is adjustable.Not only does this fridge look cool, it also happens to be one of the best performing bottom freezers on the market today. Performance-wise, there really isn't anything wrong with this fridge. Sure, the thermostat uses an imprecise 0-9 scale, but that didn't stop the fridge from holding perfectly ideal temperatures.The freezer did run a bit warm, but it was at least consistently warm both over time and throughout the compartment. Just turn the freezer dial to 6 or 7 instead of 5 to lower the temperature, and you'll be just fine.Crispers did a fantastic job retaining moisture despite the lack of an adjustable humidity slider. With great energy efficiency to boot, the Artistry really serves up a superior performance package overall.When it comes to other features... well, there aren't any. Controls can be used to adjust the temperature, and that's it. You do get a removable ice bucket, but there's no icemaker to go with it.If you want an appliance that will blend into the background, don't buy the GE Artistry ABE20EGEBS. If, however, you want a fridge with an unusual aesthetic that will make a statement in your kitchen, check it out. Excellent performance, high efficiency, and a comfortable user experience are just bonus.Retailers list this fridge for about $1,000, which makes it more affordable than most other bottom freezers of a similar size. What's more, the entire series—fridge, oven, microwave, and dishwasher—has a collective MSRP of just $2,416. That's remarkably low money for a bold, complete kitchen makeover.