The Motorized Skateboard Renaissance The Motorized Skateboard Renaissance Motorized skateboards have been a kooky outsider vehicle since the late 60′s.&nbsp; They were noisy, expensive, and incapable of handling the precise feats of physical prowess that made human-powered skateboards so popular. 
Even though dozens of entrepreneurs attempted their own novel systems for adding a motor to a skateboard, it became a certified outsider vehicle in 1977.&nbsp; That was when California, the state that is otherwise the nucleus of skateboarding culture, enacted a ban on gas-powered skateboards.
	
								 
They have lain mostly dormant ever since. 
Today, however, a confluence of trends has brought motorized skateboards into the mainstream, and entrepreneurs are giving them a try once again.
								
										 
Thanks to three major factors, motorized skateboards are enjoying a renaissance. 
Trend #1: The Popularity of Longboarding 
In the simplest terms, a longboard is a skateboard designed for traveling instead of doing tricks. They are significantly longer than a standard skateboard, have a wider wheelbase, and use softer wheels to provide a smoother ride.&nbsp; They come in lots of different shapes and sizes and can carry a slightly larger pricetag than a trick-oriented board. 
Over the course of more than a decade, Longboards have grown from an offshoot of skateboarding into a mainstream tool for transportation and recreation.
										
										 
Now, people who ride longboards aren’t necessarily “skaters” or even athletes. Instead, they run the gamut from students to businesspeople to grandparents.&nbsp; Some of them ride longboards for fun, some for transportation.&nbsp; Either way, there has been a major rise in popularity, and the growth appears sustainable. 
Skateboarding goes through boom-and-bust cycles of popularity as its participants age and popularity shifts. In a 2012 interview, Concrete Wave publisher Michael Brooke said he thinks longboarding has the capability to defeat this fad cycle. 
“All the surveys I’ve read indicate there is an 85% attrition rate within street skateboarding. Young adults leave it to chase girls, form bands, drive cars and do other nefarious things,” Brooke said.&nbsp; “I sense the reverse is opposite within longboarding.&nbsp; I bet only fifteen percent of people who bought a longboard don’t ride it any more―and they use a longboard to engage in all kinds of nefarious activities!” 
This is extremely important because motorized skateboards bear a stronger resemblance to a longboard than to a regular skateboard. 
Trend #2 The Growth of E-Vehicles 
The Segway blazed a difficult trail for electric vehicles.&nbsp; The quirky two-wheeled “human transporter” captivated the world with its technology and innovation back in 2001, but ultimately settled into a small niche where it resides today. 
While you’re unlikely to see anyone but security guards and tourists riding Segways today, the vehicle served as a daring leader for electric vehicle development. 
From 2001 to 2006, more than 16,670 patents were filed for electric propulsion around the world.&nbsp; In the previous five-year span (1995-2000), only 9,034 patents of this type were filed. 
  These patents covered all manner of electric vehicle, from car to boat to bicycle, but small-scale electric engine development had risen appreciably thanks in part to the Segway. 
While Segway has arguably had a profoundly negative impact on the sex appeal of electric vehicles in general, Tesla has been more than picking up the slack in that area. Trend #3: Changing Legislation 
The very law that pulled gas-powered skateboards off of California’s streets could be altered to allow them, under certain conditions. 
Early in 2014, Assemblywoman Kristin Olsen (R-Modesto) introduced a bill in the California State Legislature that would allow electric skateboards on bike lanes and paths.&nbsp; The vehicles would, however, remain banned from sidewalks and roads, and be limited to 1000 Watts of power and 20 mph of speed. 
Olsen’s push for the legislative change came largely because a company called Zboard was making electric skateboards in her district, but there are already plenty of other companies building them elsewhere. 
Innovators 
The breakthrough electric skateboard campaign on Kickstarter came from a Palo Alto company called Boosted Boards. 
Boosted Boards raised almost half a million dollars in 2012, nearly five times more money than it had originally set as its goal.&nbsp; Weighing 12 pounds, and capable of 20mph speeds, Boosted Boards billed its product as “the lightest electric vehicle in history.” 
Flash forward two years, and a Florida company called Marbel revealed its project on Kickstarter: an electric skateboard weighing just 9 pounds. 
Marbel also outstripped its funding goals, raising $395,966 in thirty days. 
Today, yet another electric skateboard company has launched a campaign on Kickstarter, but this one takes a very different approach. 
Movpak 

 
 Movpak in skateboard form.
 
Movpak is not really an electric skateboard so much as it’s motorized luggage.&nbsp; It just happens to look like a skateboard when it’s in use. 
Its closest kin would probably be the Trolley Scooter by Samsonite and Micro Mobility,&nbsp; a three-wheeled scooter that folds out of a suitcase so air commuters can zip between gates. 
Movpak looks like a soft backpack when folded up, but when folded down, it looks like a miniature electric longboard.&nbsp; Its maximum speed is 15mph, its weight is 17 pounds, its range is 9 miles, and its charge time is 2 hours. Like other electric skateboards, it’s driven by a remote control that allows for speeding up and braking. 
  While it’s not as light as a Boosted Board or Marbel, the Movpak is vastly more portable and versatile.&nbsp; By pulling up on a handle, the board disengages and folds in half, sliding neatly into the backpack.&nbsp;&nbsp; The battery even acts as a charger for smartphones.&nbsp; For students carrying their books, or urban commuters carrying their work gear, Movpak solves a lot of problems. 
Production of the Movpak will begin in March 2015, provided the San Francisco-based project reaches its funding goal of $100,000 before the tenth of October. 
Movpak’s novel design makes it stand out from the ever-swelling ranks of e-skateboards.