(PR) Panasonic Introduces the RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones (PR) Panasonic Introduces the RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones Panasonic Consumer Electronics Company today announced the introduction of the new Panasonic RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones which are ideal for active users who want to listen to music while still being aware of what is going on around them.  The RP-HGS10 Headphones are now available on www.shop.panasonic.com.

The Panasonic RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones sit directly in front of a user's ear to provide sound transmission via advanced bone conduction technology, where vibrations move through the bone directly into the auditory nerve, producing clear sound without blocking the ear canal.  With the ear drums freed-up, users can listen to their favorite music and hear their surroundings at the same time. This is especially useful for active users who enjoy outdoor activities like hikers, runners and bikers, allowing them to immerse themselves in their favorite music while staying connected to their environment (e.g. hearing requests to move over or hearing traffic sounds when on a busy path). 
The simple, streamlined design of the RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones is lightweight, allowing them to comfortably sit outside a user's ear and wrap around the backside of the head to securely stay in place. They have also been designed with soft cushioning material to absorb vertical vibration above the ear while a user is running or jogging and, a sweat and water-resistant design make the headphones perfect for workouts. The RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones are available in a variety of color options including green/black, purple/pink and white/black, each featuring a colored refection sheet for additional safety for nighttime outdoor use.   

The RP-HGS10 Open Ear Headphones join Panasonic's line of Adventure-style headphone models, including the recently introduced RP-BTGS10 Wireless Open Ear Headphones and the RP-HS34 ear-bud style Sport Clip Headphones. The RP-HGS10 Open Ear headphones will be available on www.shop.panasonic.com for an MSRP of $79.99 in late August.