Land Rover Discovery Sport: a versatile 5+2 seater SUV Land Rover Discovery Sport: a versatile 5+2 seater SUV 
                

   					
                     
                       
                   
        			Jaguar Land Rover has just unveiled the first member of its new Discovery family of cars, the Land Rover Discovery Sport. As the name would suggest, this SUV exudes a personality of adventure, boasting of versatile functionality both within and without,  5+2 seating capacity in the space of a regular 5 seater, and two engine options starting in 2015.The impressive seating accommodation has been made possible thanks to the design of a new multi-link rear axle. Aside from delivering a comfortable and rewarding driving experience, especially when paired with the Discovery Sport's long-travel suspension, it also provides sufficient cabin space behind the second row seats, allowing Land Rover to cram as much as they can in the size of a compact SUV.
		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
		
And cram you might want when you take this out car out, as the Discovery Sport is clearly designed for utility. The vehicle not only boasts of multiple storage solutions but also four 12-volt power points and six USB charging ports, ensuring that your devices will never run out of juice on a road trip. But despite that rather sporty characteristic, the Discovery Sport still bears a design that you would find in any premium automobile, making use of high-quality materials inside and ultra-high-strength steel and aluminum on the outside.
		
		
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
				
			
			
		
And premium is definitely what you will have to pay for. The Land Rover Discovery Sport will be available in two engine configurations and prices. Available starting January 2015 will be a Discovery Sport bearing a 2.2 liter SD4 tourbodiesel engine for £32,395 ($53,366). Later next year, a two-wheel drive eD4 turbodiesel engine model will also be coming with a £30,000 ($49,420) price tag attached.
In addition, Land Rover also announced its Galactic Discovery contest, in cooperation with its partner, Virgin Galactic. Four lucky friends will get a once in a lifetime chance to take a trip to space aboard one of Virgin Galactic's crafts. Definitely one of the biggest discovery experience you can ever have.SOURCE: Jaguar Land Rover