(PR) Samsung Expands Its Premium Home Audio Lineup (PR) Samsung Expands Its Premium Home Audio Lineup Samsung Electronics America, Inc., a global leader in digital media and digital convergence technologies, today announced the availability of the Shape M3 (WAM350) speaker, the latest addition to Shape Wireless Audio-Multiroom ecosystem of products and the new HW-H7500 Curved Soundbar, the world's first TV-Matching Curved Soundbar uniquely designed to seamlessly complement Samsung's 55 and 65-inch Curved UHD TVs. Both products deliver superb sound quality for any listening environment.

"With a passion to elevate entertainment experiences for consumers, we continue to lead the industry in key audio segments and deliver innovative premium products designed to create the best audio and home theater entertainment experiences," said Joe Stinziano, Executive Vice President, Samsung Electronics America. "With the launch of the M3, we're excited to unveil the latest addition to our award winning Shape Wireless Audio-Multiroom ecosystem and demonstrate our commitment to the wireless audio market. Meanwhile, the arrival of the Curved Soundbar strikes the balance between outstanding sound quality and standout design that's meant to fit seamlessly with our Curved TVs and in any living room environment."  
Samsung's Shape Wireless Audio-Multiroom M3 speaker - The smallest sibling of the Shape speaker ecosystem, the new Shape M3 is the newest addition to Samsung's Shape Wireless Audio-Multiroom ecosystem that includes the Shape M5 and M7 Wireless Speakers, the HW-H750 Soundbar, and the HT- H6500WM and HT-H7730WM home theater systems and BD-H6500 Blu-ray player. The Shape M3 Wireless Audio-Multiroom speaker is perfect for home entertaining and parties and offers a more compact yet powerful option for consumers looking to enjoy a high quality multiroom sound experience.

With the M3's compact size, consumers can enjoy clear and balanced sound throughout the home and can control their ecosystem of Shape audio devices via a smartphone or tablet with the Wireless Audio Multiroom App. Packed with a variety of integrated apps including Amazon Cloud Player, Pandora, Rhapsody, Spotify, TuneIn Radio and more, the new M3 speaker along with full Shape Wireless Audio-Multiroom ecosystem can be customized to play different tracks in different rooms, or the same music throughout the home. At $199.99 the M3 is an incredible value within Samsung's multi room line up.

Samsung's HW-H7500 Curved Soundbar - Samsung's HW-H7500, first Soundbar built with a curved form factor, gives consumers superior sound quality in a form factor that aesthetically matches Samsung's range of curved TVs (55"-65"). The new Curved Soundbar is crafted with a finely brushed aluminum finish that highlights Samsung's unique approach to elegance and design.

Featuring 8.1 channel support, the HW-H7500 Curved Soundbar delivers immersive sound quality and contains two additional drives on both sides of the unit to optimize surround sound from three directions. Samsung's proprietary technology provides more detailed sound, with amped up mid and low-range capabilities -with an included wireless subwoofer- for improved fidelity and minimized sound distortion. With user-friendly functionality, users can control a built in equalizer and additional features through Samsung TV remote controls. Connectivity to Samsung TVs is simple through Samsung's "TV SoundConnect," enabling quick and easy pairing between products.

Additionally, Samsung's Curved Soundbar is perfect for wall-mounting. The Soundbar attaches onto the stand under a Curved UHD Samsung TV, complementing its seamless and aesthetic curved design. Samsung's HW-H7500 Curved Soundbar is available for $799.99.