VMware Embraces OpenStack And Docker -- But The Devil Is In The Detail, The Limits And The Tone VMware Embraces OpenStack And Docker -- But The Devil Is In The Detail, The Limits And The Tone Last week saw 20000 or so IT administrators and CIOs descend on San Francisco for virtualization-king VMware’s annual VMworld conference (disclosure, VMware covered my travel and expenses to attend the event). The show saw many announcements but I want to delve into a couple in particular – the news that VMware is now supporting the Docker containerization approach and OpenStack (admittedly VMware did have an involvement with OpenStack previously by way of its acquisition of Nicira, but this announcement sees that support deepened). 
The reasons for these announcements are obvious. VMware had the option of continuing to push its “one technology approach for all” strategy and risk being left behind as the world moves to a far more heterogeneous view of IT. Alternatively it could become more open, embrace external parties and hopefully maintain its franchise. VMware has historically done a good job of working with open source projects within the context of its own proprietary products – Linux was the first operating system that it virtualized after all.
	
								 
This time however the company has gone further. It has anointed OpenStack as a (kind of) viable project and created its own OpenStack distribution that, in true big-company style it is pushing as somehow more trustworthy than a flavor of OpenStack from a smaller vendor. That’s all part of vendor bluster however and can largely be ignored. Instead of recognizing the default OpenStack hypervisor, KVM, VMware will instead offer an OpenStack that provisions its own ESX Server virtual machines. The management of the OpenStack resources will be handled by VMware’s vSphere product thus keeping its customers tightly in the fold. 
In relation to Docker, VMware announced a raft of news including the enabling of the creation of Docker within a vSphere environment, collaboration on various Docker-related project and the porting of the Kubernetes Docker orchestration platform over to vSphere.
								
										 
There are two ways of looking at this news, one broadly positive about VMware’s intentions and the other less so. Let’s look at each in turn. 
The Evil Empire Asserting Its Dominance 
At VMworld VMware was quick to say that the best way to use both OpenStack and Docker is on top of VMware. Various statements like “containers work better on top of VMs” and “the best way to run OpenStack is on VMware” indicate that the company is trying to convince customers that, while these tools provide some benefits in terms of agility, they only do so safely on top of VMware kit. One would be justified in saying that this move is largely defensive as the company continues to try to hold on to customer mindshare. 
In a strongly worded blog post from OpenStack player (and now, direct VMware competitor when it comes to selling OpenStack) Metacloud, the company wrote that: 
										
										 

 The whole idea behind OpenStack four years ago was to abstract the underlying infrastructure (and hypervisor) from the development and application operations process, and free people from the restrictions of closed, proprietary infrastructure stacks. No vendor lock-in, at any layer of your infrastructure. This decoupled model of OpenStack also happens to be one of the main reasons cloud lets you move faster than traditional infrastructure models– because everything just becomes an addressable resource to your development teams, you’re no longer tightly coupled to the underlying infrastructure, and you’re freed from expensive licenses and being locked in to someone else’s roadmap.&nbsp; Shadow IT has always been a side effect of teams not wanting to wait days or sometimes months to get what they need to support the business. Real OpenStack changes that, but VMware seems to be advocating exactly the opposite approach with their new offer. A quick look at their website explains that VMware OpenStack runs on top of the the following products that you’ll have to buy (and/or keep paying for): vSphere, Virtual SAN/vSphere Datastores, NSX, vCenter Operations Management Suite, vCenter Log Insight, vCloud Automation Center, and IT Business Management. Meet the new boss, same as the old boss.
 
A prominent member of the OpenStack community said to me, citing commercial partnerships to request anonymity that: 

 VMware is following the 1990′s Microsoft playbook and deploying an “embrace, extend and extinguish” strategy. VMware is a proprietary software company, their whole revenue model revolves around VMware-lock-in and the associated premiums that they can charge customers. VMware is in OpenStack because they see customers adopting it (most companies that adopt OpenStack are VMware customers) and they want to control it. They’re not interested in openness or open-source, that’s not their deal.
 
Similarly the VMware approach to Docker by way of suggesting that containers should be run on top of a virtual machine, flies in the face of many of the benefits that organizations using containers enjoy. By sharing an operating system, and hence not having to include a full OS for every single virtual machine, bare containers are more efficient, lighter weight, and easier to use. Docker on VMs on vSPhere on VMware-supplied converged infrastructure is, to use the metaphorical IT term, turtles all the way down and potentially an overly heavy solution to customer’s problems. 
Answering Real Enterprise Needs 
I spent time at VMworld talking with the Tsar of VMware’s hybrid cloud offerings, Mathew Lodge. Lodge is something of a realist and kept coming back to the theme that enterprise IT is increasingly nuanced. There is no one correct answer for all customers or individual workloads but there are some core failings of other approaches towards OpenStack and containers. 
The fact is that enterprises need to balance flexibility with robustness. Sure they all aspire to the Netflix-like version of infrastructure, where composible components are glued together in a manner that creates a highly specific stack for particular requirements. But while enterprises aspire to this, they also generally lack the sort of engineering talent that organizations like Netflix have. By extension, being able to utilize more tightly coupled components (such as containers but within the construct of VMs and VMware management) gives them certainty, security and confidence. It is, those who hold this conciliatory view contend, a case of taking incremental steps in the journey towards reinventing IT. Enterprises need a gradual progression rather than open-heart surgery to rebuild what they do. 
MyPOV 
Without wanting to be wishy-washy, I have to say that both camps have some valid points. Of course VMware’s suggested approach towards containers and OpenStack is sub-optimal when looked at through the lens of a mythical hyper-agile IT organization. It’s not disaggregated, indeed VMware is at pains to glue together many of the component parts. it also pushes an approach which is arguably heavier than is truly needed for many workloads. 
But on the other hand, there were 20,000 or so VMware customers sitting at VMworld who, frankly, feel very fearful of the future. They know their world is changing and that scares them. They want to deliver more agility for their organizations but they need to do so within their existing paradigm, leveraging their existing assets, and, wherever possible, by leveraging known and trusted vendors. 
These are the two conflicting realities that VMware faces and it is in a difficult position. It needs to temper its message to be one step in front, as opposed to being out of sight, of its customers. It’s a continuum and while VMware could be accused of being too close to the conservative end of that continuum, surely they’d do their customer base a disservice were they to be too far in the other direction? 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp; 
 
Connect with Ben on Twitter&nbsp;@benkepes&nbsp;|&nbsp;LinkedIn&nbsp;|&nbsp;AngelList