GTA V release date tipped for PS4, Xbox One, PC GTA V release date tipped for PS4, Xbox One, PC 
                

   					
                     
                       
                   
        			Several sources are coming together to form a Voltron of clues this week pointing toward a final release date for GTA V for Xbox One, PlayStation 4, and PC. The game has been rumored for several weeks to be appearing on the 14th of November here in the United States. The newest clue suggest that the 18th of November is more likely.This leak comes from Newegg where they push the slightly more reasonable release date, releasing on a Tuesday instead of a Saturday. Most new release video game titles are pushed on Tuesdays in the United States, and we’d expect Grand Theft Auto 5 to be no different.Both dates make good sense in relation to Thanksgiving, that taking place on the 27th of November. There we’ll also be able to see some Black Friday sales of the game which will appear on shelves at the standard $59.99 USD for all platforms. Grand Theft Auto V has been released for Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 since September of 2013. Everyone else, please thank these platform users for playtesting the game. Thank you!
UPDATE: The release date has now been updated to "12/31/2014" on Newegg, suggesting they’ve been authorized to note that it’ll come out within this year, but not that it’ll come out at a certain time this November. We shall see!Thanks for the tip, RADAR34!

Story Timeline

Grand Theft Auto Online updated to fix deleted cars and ugly characters
Grand Theft Auto Online Stimulus Package delayed: more work needs doing
Grand Theft Auto San Andreas hits iOS, Android, Windows Phone next month
Grand Theft Auto V maker Rockstar to be sued by Lindsay Lohan: TMZ
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas for iOS hits iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas hits Android and Amazon Kindle devices
Amazon Fire TV brings in Grand Theft Auto franchise, Twitch
Grand Theft Auto V makers sued by Lindsay Lohan

