With MX4, Meizu Ups The Ante In Smart Phone War With MX4, Meizu Ups The Ante In Smart Phone War The mobile phone world is a battleground where complacency is a luxury that no one can afford. For several years, Meizu ruled the domestic smartphone market, then Xiaomi came along, booting the leader from its throne and charmed away its users with its quality Mi phones. Seems that the wounded ego never healed. At its two and half-hour long launch held in Beijing this afternoon, antagonism went beyond the occasional verbal jabs; Meizu simply used Xiaomi’s latest Xi4 as benchmark to prove that it is capable of outdoing its archrival in all counts, no matter how trivial and meaningless it is. Compare the specs of two and you will understand what I am talking about. 
Screen:&nbsp;1920 x 1152 vs 1920&nbsp;x&nbsp;1080
	
								 
CPU:&nbsp;MediaTek MT6595 octo-core 2.2GHz&nbsp;vs&nbsp;Snapdragon 801 quad-core 2.5GHz 
Main camera: 20.7 MP vs 13 MP
								
										 
Battery: 3100 mAh vs 3080 mAh 
Weight: 147g vs 149g 
Cloud storage: 40T vs 10G 
Screen shattering insurance: 89 yuan per year vs 99 yuan per year
										
										 
Price: 1799 yuan vs 1999 yuan 
 
I don’t need to tell you which is MX4’s and which is Mi4’s, suffice it to say that although both are powerful machines equipped with the latest technology, Meizu’s MX4 managed to be bigger, larger, lighter and cheaper most of the time. But can these numbers be translated into sales figures? Possible, but Meizu didn’t want to leave anything to chances. 
Unlike four years ago, to beat Xiaomi, being bigger, larger, lighter and cheaper&nbsp;is not enough. 
At its launch this July, Xiaomi had made clear that it wanted to shift its emphasis from specs to design. An analogy would be that the company used to build pickups packed with 1000 horsepower engines, now it wants to build Ferraris, at least knockoff ones. To convey its vision, it even made a documentary to show how it painstakingly shaped a piece steel into a polished skeleton of the Mi4s. 
MX4 has something up its sleeves too.&nbsp;“We have been using (stainless steel) for years and never felt the need even to mention it,” the company’s manager Bai Yongxiang said at the launch, “now we have moved on simply because we have found something better.” 
The result is an aircraft-grade aluminium chassis produced iPhone 5S-style. To sweeten the deal, Meizu also introduced a number of smart hardware, including a 199 yuan smartwatch, a 49 yuan smart socket and a 2,199 quadcopter as well as a new OS, the Flyme system based on Android 4.4.4 featuring redesigned typeface and icons among many other things – in comparison, the three month-old Xiaomi is still powered by an outdated MIUI V5 that is over one year old.