Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Ram, Fiat: The 2015 Changes, Model By Model Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Ram, Fiat: The 2015 Changes, Model By Model 2015 Chrysler 200Enlarge PhotoLabor Day weekend has come and gone, school is back in session, and the new 2015 models are most definitely rolling into dealerships.
Fittingly, Chrysler has just released a mother lode of product information about the new model year—including everything from new technologies and powertrains to option-package details and new colors and trims.
We've taken a look at the long-form information, and then whittled that down to a few especially noteworthy change points by brand. For more, be sure to browse our full reviews on these models for more, but if you simply want to know what's new, at a glance, and whether the 2015 model is worth waiting for versus that marked-down 2014 model already on the lot, this is a great starting point:
Chrysler
Later this year, the 2015 Chrysler 200 (which was completely new, but released earlier in the model year) will offer engine stop-start (ESS) technology on models with the 2.4-liter four-cylinder engine.
A “thoroughly refreshed” Chrysler 300 and 300C will first be shown at the LA Auto Show in November and will go on sale early next year.
The Town &amp; Country lineup adds both a base LX model—with a price under $30,000—and a 2015 Chrysler Town &amp; Country Platinum model that gets three-row Nappa leather upholstery, an entertainment system, and more.
Dodge
The 2015 Grand Caravan offers new Plus Packages for SE and SXT models, adding appearance, convenience, and connectivity/infotainment upgrades.
A couple of new colors and five years of free SiriusXM Traffic and Travel Link service are the biggest pieces of news for the Journey, which continues offering the Journey Crossroad special-appearance package as last year.
Several appearance packages (Rallye Appearance and Blacktop) have expanded availability on the 2015 Dodge Durango, while there's a new Beats by Dr. Dre audio system for R/T and Citadel models. Red Nappa leather upholstery is newly offered on R/T models, and the Uconnect Access Via Mobile system adds streaming audio entertainment options.
The 2015 Dart gets an update to its Uconnect Touch infotainment system that permits better Android smartphone connectivity, and Dodge has boosted the equipment and value for money in the Dart SE model.
The 2015 Challenger coupes have been given a significant refresh, with a new look, ride and handling improvements, and a much more refined cabin look and feel. Although we'll have to admit that it's all overshadowed a bit by the 707-hp Challenger SRT Hellcat.
The 2015 Dodge Charger—known as a muscie car, family car, police car, and more—gets some of the same changes as the Challenger, but it heads in a somewhat different, less retro design direction. Powertrains range from a 292-hp, 3.6-liter V-6 and eight-speed automatic in the SE to the 707-hp, 6.2-liter supercharged V-8 in the Charger SRT Hellcat, which the automaker says makes it the fastest sedan on the planet.
The Viper gains new colors, new interior combinations, an extra 5 horsepower (up to 645 hp), and one more mpg on the highway (up to 20). There's also a Viper GTS Ceramic Blue Edition Package with special ceramic exterior paint and more luxurious interior appointments, and a Viper TA 2.0 Special Edition for track enthusiasts. And the Viper GT gets the driver-selectable suspension system previously offered on ly on the GTS.

     


    
            
            
                Page 1 of 2
        
                    1
                    2
                    Next