6 things we want from the new Moto X 6 things we want from the new Moto X The original Moto X. Photo: MotorolaIn just a couple of days from now, Motorola will be unveiling the successor to the Moto X, which was widely regarded by many as one of the best phones to launch last year.Even though the original Moto X did not sport beastly specs or a great camera, it provided quite a lot of unique features which greatly enhanced its usability.All the flagship phones from major OEMs this year have been pretty impressive in nearly all the aspect, and Motorola needs to make some serious improvements in certain departments if it wants the new Moto X to be once again crowned the best phone of the year.Below, we list down six things which we hope Motorola addresses on the new Moto X or the Moto X+1 or whatever the company ends up calling it.A Better DisplayThe original Moto X comes with a 4.7-inch 720p Super-AMOLED display with a PenTile pixel layout. At the time of its launch, the display on the Moto X was barely good enough, and more than a year later it is absolutely terrible.The original Moto X display was average at best. Photo: GoogleOne can only hope that this time around Motorola uses a Super-AMOLED panel that can hold its own against the likes of the Galaxy S5 and the HTC One M8, and offers decent color reproduction, contrast and brightness levels.Rumors have indicated that the new Moto X will come with a 5.2-inch 1080p Super-AMOLED display, which is quite a jump in size compared to its predecessor. Here is hoping that the AMOLED panel offers a similar jump in performance as well.The right priceWhen Motorola had initially unveiled the Moto X last year, it sold the phone for $600+, which for the features it offered was grossly overpriced. Worse, Motorola made Moto Maker, one of the key features of the phone, exclusive to AT&amp;T for quite sometime &#8212; which further killed the interest surrounding the phone.The launch of the handset in the United Kingdom was even a bigger disaster as it was released nearly 6 months later with the same $600 price tag, which in retrospect was a very poor decision from Motorola.Over time though, Motorola realized its mistake and lowered the price of the device to a much more reasonable $400 and opened Moto Maker for all the carriers in the United States.With two budget hits in the last one year, one can only hope that Motorola prices the new Moto X more sensibly this time and does not make Moto Maker exclusive to any carrier in the United States for even a short period of time.Wireless ChargingWireless Charging is an incredibly useful feature to have on a smartphone. Photo: GooglePlastic has always been Motorola&#8217;s preferred choice of material while building its phone. While Moto phones don&#8217;t feel as good as the HTC One or the iPhone in hand, they offer superb ergonomics and top notch build quality for a phone that is made of plastic.Another advantage of plastic is that it allows Motorola to include wireless charging in its devices, which the company omitted from the Moto X last year. With wireless charging becoming popular and gaining traction, Motorola really does not have any excuse to not include the feature on the new Moto X this time around.A usable cameraMotorola phones have had average cameras at best. Photo: TinhteMotorola phones have never had a good camera and last year&#8217;s Moto X was no exception. The 10MP &#8216;ClearPixel&#8217; camera promised a lot but could only deliver average photos at best. While Motorola did roll out multiple software updates to improve the camera performance, the Moto X camera never really managed to impress anyone with its photos in any kind of lighting situations.With camera in phones being a major buying deciding factor for many, Motorola needs to step up its game in the camera department with the new Moto X. Sadly, the company&#8217;s other two handsets &#8212; the Moto G and Moto E &#8212; also have terrible cameras, so chances of the new Moto X including a exceptional camera are pretty bleak.Rumors and leaks have indicated that the new Moto X will come with a 12MP camera, and some sources indicate that the camera is just a slight upgrade over the one found on the Moto X.Battery lifeWhen Motorola had unveiled the original Moto X, it promised that the handset would deliver 24 hours of battery life. Sadly, the handset only lived up to this claim if it was used sparingly throughout the day.This year, the benchmark in the battery life department has already been set pretty high with the likes of the Galaxy S5, HTC One M8 and the Xperia Z2 easily lasting more than a day of heavy usage.With Motorola&#8217;s mid-range offerings stellar battery life as well, it will be surprising if the company&#8217;s upcoming flagship handset struggles to make it through a day of heavy usage.A &#8216;wow&#8217; new featureThe new Moto X comes will come with mysterious new sensors. Photo: TK Tech NewsLast year, Motorola wowed everyone by introducing Active Display and Always-On hotword detection with the Moto X. As a generational improvement, the company is bound to make improvements to these features.As a smartphone enthusiast though, I hope that Motorola once again manages to deliver some unique features with new Moto X that makes everyone go &#8220;wow&#8221;.Leaked pictures have suggested that the new Moto X will be equipped with some strange new sensors on the front, whose exact purpose are currently unknown. Here&#8217;s hoping that the company uses these sensors for some new features that greatly improves the usability of its devices, just like it did with the original Moto X.What do you want Motorola to fix the new Moto X? What are your expectations from the handset? Drop in a comment and do let us know.