Google engineers lay out ambitious future for Android Wear Google engineers lay out ambitious future for Android Wear In a new interview with CNET, Google&#8217;s Director of Engineering for Android Wear David Singleton and the Vice President of Engineering for Android Hiroshi Lockheimer talked about the future of the Android Wear platform and where they see it going in the near future. According to Singleton, &#8220;one of the things we&#8217;re going to be able to do is add the ability for these devices to start working with some of the other devices you might wear on your body&#8221; as part of several updates expected to be pushed out. The two engineers think the update cycle for Android Wear will be quite fast, reminiscent of the earlier years of Android on smartphones.Lockheimer indicates Google&#8217;s overall strategy with regard to wearables is to give consumers a device that is there when you need it and forgotten about when you don&#8217;t need it. Despite that, both men indicated that removing the prototype devices they&#8217;ve been using does highlight for them how useful they are and how much they miss them when they are not present.Two updated features ready to come out soon include the ability to pair Android Wear devices with other devices besides a smartphone. For instance, a smartwatch could be paired with some Bluetooth headphones. Singleton also said GPS support for the platform will be introduced for devices that include GPS hardware.Singleton also said a forthcoming update will be the tools developers need to create new watch faces that can be installed via Google Play. He noted that developers had already figured out how do a lot on their own, but the new API will make it much easier. One of the things Google is looking for from this is development of faces to be used in different contexts, like hiking, skiing or keeping track of a ballgame.Speaking of developers, Singleton says there are thousands of apps already updated to include Android Wear support. He points to Facebook Messenger including support for voice replies and a similar feature in the Whatsapp Messenger beta. He also spoke about an application that lets you play guitar on your watch as an example of how developers will come up with solutions that Google never even imagined for the platform or for wearables.One big area Google is looking for partners to step up is with regard to sensors. The Google team thinks this will be an area for innovation and a way for manufacturers to differentiate themselves from the rest of the market. In developing the platform, Google has tried to make it as open and accessible as possible for any sensor to be used. Google is also looking for manufacturers to take advantage of the customization of the user interface and seemed to hint that Android Wear devices are not locked down as tightly as some have suggested.With the number of wearables expected to explode from 9.7 million shipped in 2013 to an estimated 250 million by 2018, it is definitely a market segment where Google wants to get as much right as possible the first time around.source: CNET