(PR) ViewSonic Unveils the VG2401mh 24-Inch Gaming Monitor (PR) ViewSonic Unveils the VG2401mh 24-Inch Gaming Monitor ViewSonic Corp., a leading global provider of visual solution products, expands its entertainment line today with the launch of its new VG2401mh, a 24-inch Full HD display designed specifically for avid gamers and entertainment enthusiasts.

The VG2401mh features a 144 Hz rapid refresh rate and blazing-fast 1 ms response time, delivering ultra-smooth graphics and lag-free, crisp images for extreme moments of game play, as well as action-packed videos and other multimedia entertainment applications. The VG2401mh also features ViewSonic's Game Mode technology. Game Mode technology enhances visibility and detail by brightening the dark scenes of video games providing the ultimate gaming experience. In addition, an "Aimpoint" hotkey function provides gamers with on-screen crosshairs for an instant and accurate. 
"We are very excited to launch our high-performance gaming monitor, the VG2401mh. Perfect for both professional and casual gamers, we developed this monitor after noticing a growing demand within the gaming industry for a monitor not only to enhance the visual experience during game play, but also to provide a competitive edge to gamers," said Claire Chuang, Monitor Product Manager at ViewSonic Europe. "We've developed cutting-edge technologies and designed features specifically to help gamers compete and excel in a wide array of games."

The VG2401mh includes dual HDMI and DisplayPort inputs, as well as dual USB hub connectivity, making it easy to connect to high-definition multimedia devices and gaming consoles such as Xbox and PS3, Blu-ray and DVD players, as well as traditional PC systems.

Along with a slim matt bezel, an advanced ergonomic design allows users to swivel, pivot, tilt, raise, and lower the display for a more comfortable viewing experience, while proprietary Flicker-Free Technology and Blue Light Filter help to reduce eye fatigue during extended periods of gaming.

The ViewSonic VG2401mh will be available from October 2014 with an MSRP of £249, €279, US$399 (including VAT).