Apple iPhone 6 allegedly flaunted in hands-on video Apple iPhone 6 allegedly flaunted in hands-on video  	It won't be long before the iPhone 5S is supplanted by the iPhone 6.Apple's iPhone 6 is expected to be unveiled next week, but the rumor mill continues to offer up hints of features that might appear in the next iPhone. 	A video published to YouTube on Monday by Russia-based YouTube user Rozetked claims to show the new iPhone 6. Unlike some other leaked images and videos that have surfaced on the Web, this one (watch below) shows what appears to be a fully assembled iPhone 6 next to a current iPhone 5S. Although the video's accuracy cannot be confirmed, it's arguably the best video so far showing the rumored iPhone 6. 	CNET has contacted Apple for comment on the video. We will update this story when we have more information. 	Apple announced last week that it would hold a special press event on September 9. The company is expected to unveil the iPhone 6 at that event and could also reveal a wearable device. 	Over the last several months, rumors have been flying about Apple's plans for the iPhone 6. Supposedly leaked images and specs claim the device will have a 4.7-inch display, an improved processor, and near-field communication for mobile payments. The anticipated device would run iOS 8 when it launches this fall. 	While many videos have surfaced claiming to show the iPhone 6, few are as detailed or believable as the video from Rozetked. The device shown in the video looks very similar to devices pictured in images leaked from Apple supplier facilities.  The device in the video also has the 4.7-inch screen and streamlined design that is expected in the iPhone 6. It also allegedly sports Apple's next-generation A8 processor and NFC, but not the much rumored sapphire display. 	Apple has remained tight-lipped on its plans and has not shared any insight into what the iPhone 6 might offer. As it has in the past, Apple likely won't comment on anything iPhone 6-related until its special event on September 9. CNET will be on hand to live-blog Apple's launch event next week. 	 	(Via The Verge)