Samsung NX1 mirrorless camera teased, details leaked Samsung NX1 mirrorless camera teased, details leaked 
                

   					
                     
                       
                   
        			Not everything that will happen this month will go down at IFA 2014 this week. Samsung has another event scheduled for a different subset of its fans, the ones more interested in its mirrorless interchangeable lens camera line. Samsung will be holding its Premiere 2014, also in Germany, in two weeks, and the star of the show is a new NX camera, rumored to be called simply the Samsung NX1.Not much yet has been known about this digital compact, but this latest leak immediately gives us almost a dozen. According to this list, the NX1 will have a 28 megapixel CMOS sensor with Samsung's patented ISOCELL "isolated cells" technology. For autofocus, it will go with an Advanced Hybrid type. ISO range goes from 100 at the lowest to 51200 at the peak. It should be able to record videos in UHD 4K 3840x2160 resolution but only in 30 and 24 fps rates. For 60p, you will have to stick with Full HD only.In terms of the "digital" features, the NX1 will sport a 3-inch tiltable AMOLED touchscreen, though it isn't known yet if it will be as "selfie friendly" as many recent digital cameras these days. There will be, of course, WiFi and NFC connectivity, the latter mostly used for initial pairing rather than data transfer. For build quality, the camera is expected to wear a weather-sealed magnesium alloy body and boast of a still unspecified dust and water proof IP rating.Curiously, this list doesn't mention one early rumor about the Samsung NX1. The mirrorless camera was initially believed to run Tizen inside, just like last year's NX300M model., which would have made it one of the very few devices that use the operating system that Samsung is pushing hard these days. Either things did not go as planned or Samsung will not advertise that feature heavily, which seems an unlikely scenario.Samsung will reveal all on September 15, 12 p.m. CEST, at the Photokina photography world fair in Cologne, Germany.VIA: Photo Rumors