Best fantasy football apps for iPhone: Draft, drop, and track your players like a pro! Best fantasy football apps for iPhone: Draft, drop, and track your players like a pro!   

In search of the best iPhone apps to help you track your fantasy football team throughout the season? There are lots of NFL apps in the App Store that show stats and breaking news, but why settle for less? From cheat sheets and draft kits to professional recommendations, these are the best fantasy football apps for the 2014 season!



NFL Fantasy Football Cheat Sheet &amp; Draft Kit



The NFL Fantasy Cheat Sheet app is the official NFL offering for the 2014 season. Draft types supported include serpentine/snake, straight, third round reversal, and auction. When it comes to picking your teams, NFL Fantasy Cheat Sheet offers player statistics for the past three seasons. The Draft Kit portion itself makes it incredibly easy to view your board. You can even use the built-in AirPlay support to share it on the big screen with all your friends.

For a complete cheat sheet and draft kit directly from the NFL, look no further than the official Fantasy Football Cheat Sheet &amp; Draft Kit.

$4.99 - Download Now
ESPN Fantasy Football



ESPN Fantasy Football offers alerts for injuries, trades, and scoring updates. You also have access to live auction and snake drafts right from the app. If you follow FantasyCast or any of ESPN's other fantasy football coverage, you can access a lot of that content right within the app as well. When it comes to your league, you've got complete team and roster management right at your fingertips.

If you prefer ESPN's fantasy football coverage and don't need extremely advanced draft tools, be sure to check out ESPN Fantasy Football.

Free - Download Now
Rotowire Draft Kit 2014



Rotowire's Draft Kit 2014 is one of the most advanced and feature packed fantasy football apps you're going to find anywhere. It's very similar in feature set to the official offering from the NFL but has more tools to help you manage your league. For instance, you can add notes to players, view team depth charts, mark players as sleepers or busts, and tons more. You also get the past three seasons of players statistics with Rotowire so you can make informed decisions.

If you want one of the most feature packed fantasy football apps available and don't mind a slight learning curve, you want Rotowire's Draft Kit 2014.

$4.99 - Download Now
Footballguys Draft Dominator 2014



Draft Dominator 2014 by Footballguys is a complete kit and guide to drafting your entire fantasy league. Using value based drafting algorithms, you get custom cheat sheet recommendations that are always up to date. You also get player rankings and recommendations from the staff of Footballguys so you know you can be confident in your picks. If you use the Footballguys Rate My Team service, Draft Dominator can link up and integrate with that as well.

For customized cheat sheet recommendations and valuable tidbits you can't get elsewhere, give Draft Dominator 2014 a try.

$4.99 - Download Now
Footballguys Fantasy Football Magazine 2014



Fantasy Football Magazine 2014 is meant to be a companion app for the Draft Dominator 2014 app but no matter what drafting app you choose, the Magazine still has great information. With many different available categories, get information on off-season injuries, player evaluations, strategies, and much more. More importantly, Footballguys also offer a great forecasting section that gives you invaluable insight when making your draft picks.

If you want a great resource that can go hand-in-hand with any drafting and cheat sheet app, Fantasy Football Magazine 2014 by Footballguys is a must-have.

$4.99 - Download Now
Your vote for best fantasy football apps for iPhone?

If you follow and participate in fantasy football on a regular basis, what apps have helped you the most? Are some more accurate than others in your experience? Be sure to let me know in the comments!