Reddit Users Get Remorse Over Nude Pictures, Turn to Charity Reddit Users Get Remorse Over Nude Pictures, Turn to Charity Image: Flickr, Rocky Lubbers

Remorseful Redditors are attempting to absolve their guilty consciences over looking at leaked photos of celebrities — by donating to prostate cancer research, allegedly because "Jennifer Lawrence has donated to help cure prostate cancer."
So far more than $6,000 has been donated by Reddit users to the Prostate Cancer Foundation — despite the fact that the Prostate Cancer Foundation isn't actually listed as one of Jennifer Lawrence's  supported charities. 


Image: Screenshot, pfc.orgHundreds of nude photographs of more than a dozen celebrities spread across the Internet, quickly making their way from their origins on 4chan and the anonymous image board anon-ib to more mainstream message boards such as Reddit. 
Shortly after the breach was exposed, a subreddit called "TheFappening" was created. ("Fap" is a word for masturbation commonly used on Reddit.) As new photos were released, a live post provided updates, and a leaked photo archive compiled the photos.
The live thread has since been banned; the archive post is "no longer available due to a copyright claim."

Leaked photos are being removed from imgur and other hosting services as quickly as possible — but not fast enough. The mod post attatched to the top of the subreddit lists over 50 "whitelisted" image hosting domains.
If you're casually browsing Reddit, you won't notice any threads from TheFappening; it was removed from the main page, r/all, per the suggestion of the subreddit's admins. Still, according to user johnsmcjohn, a moderator for TheFappening, the subreddit has seen 12,187,720 unique visitors in 3 days.

According to one anonymous post discussing a 4chan thread, a celebrity porn exchange ring has been going on for years. One redditor even points out that dicussions on anon-ib have been surrounding stolen celebrity photos "more or less dedicated to ripping iCloud accounts."


Image: anon[H/T: The Daily Dot]