Leaked Nude Images Reveal Celebs' Location Information Leaked Nude Images Reveal Celebs' Location Information Our devices are way too adept at collecting information about us. When we take photos with GPS-enabled cameras and smartphones, they often add a geotag to mark the spot where the image was taken, which is bad news for the many high-profile individuals whose photos leaked online this weekend. On top of their bodies being exposed, many celebrities are having the location where they took nude shots revealed through the metadata in the hacked images. Security expert Ashkan Soltani notes the exif data on many of the photos reveals the coordinates where they were taken. 

 It’s not just nude photos celebs need to worry about — a number of the leaked images reveal their GPS location pic.twitter.com/2MhrqSq4tr
	
								 
 — ashkan soltani (@ashk4n) September 2, 2014
 
Any shots taken at a private residence — which is usually where people take revealing shots — can also reveal where a celebrity lives, aiding stalkers. Sports gossip blog Deadspin has already taken advantage of this, mapping out the geotagged location of photos stolen from Detroit Tigers pitcher Justin Verlander and matching them up with his schedule. Verlander’s photos include images of model Kate Upton, who he is dating. Deadspin notes for example that a photo of the “silhouette of someone’s penis” was taken in November outside of Richmond, Va., helpfully noting that Verlander owns a home in Goochland, Va. Unlike many other media sites, Deadspin has no compunctions about linking to the stolen and NSFW images it describes.
								
										 
Many social media sites — such as Twitter, Instagram and Facebook — strip exif data from images when you post them, unless a user proactively chooses to include their location. But the original photo file on a phone will contain that information (something to keep in mind when you share photos with people via email or text message). This is yet another thing for those affected by the hack to worry about. 
Meanwhile Apple admitted the obvious in a statement Tuesday: saying the images did indeed come from Apple accounts. Describing the company as “outraged,” Apple’s PR team said that after “more than 40 hours of investigation, we have discovered that certain celebrity accounts were compromised by a very targeted attack on user names, passwords and security questions, a practice that has become all too common on the Internet.” In other word, the attacker or attackers correctly guessed where celebs’ parents met or what their first car was. 
Apple says that “none of the cases we have investigated has resulted from any breach in any of Apple’s systems including iCloud&reg; or Find my iPhone.” Many experts have suggested that attackers could have figured out celebs’ passwords by brute-forcing their accounts as iCloud did not previously limit the number of passwords you could try to access an account. 
Apple said it’s working with law enforcement to identify the culprit. A spokesperson for the FBI in Los Angeles says, “The FBI is aware of the allegations concerning computer intrusions and the unlawful release of material involving high profile individuals, and is addressing the matter.” Apple recommends turning on two-factor authentication for your account and “using a strong password.”
										
										 
Over at the ACLU, technologist Chris Soghoian makes some excellent points about what tech giants from Google and Apple should learn from this. For one, part of the reason why people have sh***y Apple passwords is that Apple makes you enter it every time you download a new app. No one wants to type a jumble of letters, numbers and %$#es every time they’re in iTunes or the App store. He recommends Apple require a short pin to do that and something stronger for protection of people’s iCloud accounts, which can grant access to their photos and iMessages. Another clever suggestion he makes is that Apple and Google give us the equivalent of “private browsing mode” for photos. Many of us want our photos backed up, so we don’t lose our vacation photos if we drop our phone in the ocean, but we don’t want our scandalous selfies going into the cloud along with our sunset selfies. 
“Apple, Google and the other big tech companies should acknowledge that millions of their customers regularly use their products to engage in sensitive, intimate activities,” writes Soghoian. “These companies can and should offer a ‘private photo’ option for sensitive photos that prevents them from being uploaded to the cloud.” 
+1 to that.