(PR) Netgear Announces New Nighthawk X4 R7500 Smart WiFi Router (PR) Netgear Announces New Nighthawk X4 R7500 Smart WiFi Router NETGEAR, Inc., a global networking company that delivers innovative products to consumers, businesses and service providers, is launching the Nighthawk X4 AC2350 Smart WiFi Router (R7500), an addition to its award-winning Nighthawk family of 802.11ac routers. The Nighthawk X4 WiFi Gigabit Router with support for Quad-stream WiFi Architecture delivers the fastest dual-band 802.11ac speed and performance for high intensity gaming, streaming and mobile connectivity.

The Nighthawk X4 is capable of a blistering 2.33 Gbps combined network speed (up to 1733 Mbps* on the 5.0 GHz band + 600 Mbps* on the 2.4 GHz band). It has a powerful 1.4 GHz dual core processor, based on the Qualcomm Internet Processor, that provides unprecedented processing power to enable better multi-tasking performance. The X4 is also powered by the Quantenna 802.11ac Wave 2, 4x4, MU-MIMO (Multi-User MIMO) WiFi solution to maximize wireless performance. 
The new Quad-stream Architecture enables the X4 to stream high quality, full HD content with greater clarity and less buffering than was ever possible before. This, in conjunction with the four high performance antennas, provides unmatched home WiFi range and performance wherever it's needed.

Moreover, Nighthawk X4 offers a unique Dynamic QoS prioritization capability. Instead of treating all devices and applications as the same, Dynamic QoS recognizes each individual application - gaming, streaming, file transfers, web browsing, etc. - and prioritizes them accordingly. X4 is also device-aware, recognizing gaming consoles from smart TVs, and PCs from smartphones, thus ensuring bandwidth is allocated appropriately to each connected device. This unique application-aware and device-aware capability makes online gameplay completely lag-free. Streaming full HD video is more stable and jitter-free, with less buffering, for a totally seamless experience.

"The Nighthawk X4 is designed for gamers and people who do a lot of video streaming," said Sandeep Harpalani, NETGEAR's director of product marketing for Retail Network Products. "We are excited to leverage the best in processing power, Dynamic Quality of Service, and dual-band WiFi technology to exceed the expectations of these demanding consumers."

The X4 also offers superior capabilities for sharing, storing and securing your treasured files and multimedia content. You can easily add storage by connecting a drive to the twin SuperSpeed USB 3.0 ports or one eSATA port on the Nighthawk X4 giving you fast access to all your files.

You'll be able to take advantage of the X4's 2.33 Gbps dual-band WiFi to stream content at speeds previously only possible with wired connections, making it ideal for streaming video to screens around the home that are DLNA-enabled or AirPlay-compatible.

X4 also includes a free software application that takes automatic backups of all PCs in your home network. NETGEAR ReadySHARE Vault makes safeguarding your PC files, photos, music, and movies easier than ever.

Technical Benefits of Nighthawk X4

NETGEAR has packed Nighthawk X4 with best-in-class technology to offer an unmatched WiFi experience for your WiFi-enabled devices - smartphones, notebooks, tablets, smart TVs, gaming consoles, Blu-ray players, and media servers.Quad-stream X4 Architecture delivers AC2350 WiFi for a combined speed of 2.33 Gbps (1733 Mbps* + 600 Mbps*), the fastest available dual-band 802.11ac WiFi connection to any one device.The 1.4GHz dual core processor delivers 40 percent faster speed for improved WiFi, wired, and WAN-to-LAN performance.802.11ac Wave 2 WiFi technology is designed to deliver faster WiFi to multiple devices.Application-aware and device-aware Dynamic QoS technology optimizes your connection speed for reduced lag and buffering.Beamforming+ improves WiFi coverage and reliability by focusing WiFi directly at connected devices.Powerful amplifiers and four high-performance external antennas increase range for whole-home mobility.Security features include VPN support for secure remote access, customized free URL, SPI and NAT double firewall, separate guest network access, and parental controls.Five Gigabit Ethernet ports (1 WAN and 4 LAN) offer fast wired connections.One eSATA port and two SuperSpeed USB 3.0 ports offer high-speed, storage-ready access that is significantly faster than USB 2.0.ReadySHARE Vault, a free software application, automatically backs up Windows-based PCs to a USB hard drive connected to Nighthawk X4.NETGEAR MyMedia enables you to find and play your stored media from anywhere on your network to your DLNA-ready TVs and music system.iTunes server support enables you to play music on AirPlay-compatible devices using iTunes or Apple Remote.NETGEAR genie is a personal dashboard that makes it easy to install, monitor, control and repair your home network from PCs, Macs, and iOS and Android smartphones and tablets.Pricing and Availability
Nighthawk X4 AC2350 Smart WiFi Router (R7500) is available immediately at an MSRP of $279.99 in the U.S.