PG&E to be fined $1.4 billion for San Bruno explosion PG&E to be fined $1.4 billion for San Bruno explosion SAN BRUNO -- State regulators on Tuesday proposed a $1.4 billion fine to punish PG&amp;E for its role in a fatal natural gas explosion in San Bruno that killed eight people and wrecked a quiet residential neighborhood.The proposed punishment issued by two administrative law judges with the state Public Utilities Commission represents the largest safety related penalty ever issued by the PUC. Yet it is far less than a potential $2.45 billion fine that the utility's critics including consumer advocates and San Bruno officials had said PG&amp;E should have received.The penalty consists of $950 million to be paid to California's General Fund, $400 million in pipeline improvements that cannot be recovered from ratepayers, and about $50 million to be used to implement more than 75 remedies to enhance pipeline safety. The PUC's Safety and Enforcement Division will be able to use $30 million from the fines to hire independent auditors to audit PG&amp;E's project to validate pressure in its natural gas pipelines.Investigators blamed San Francisco-based PG&amp;E's poor record keeping and negligent maintenance, as well as lax oversight by the state PUC, for the September 2010 explosion.PG&amp;E spokesman Greg Snapper said in a prepared release: "We are accountable and fully accept that a penalty is appropriate. We have respectfully asked that the Commission ensure that the penalty is reasonable and proportionate and takes into consideration the company's investments and actions to promote safety. Moreover, we believe any penalty should directly benefit public safety."The full PUC must issue a final decision, which is expected this year. That means this proposal could be modified, possibly substantially.Separately, federal prosecutors have filed criminal felony charges against PG&amp;E, including an accusation of obstruction of justice. The criminal case could result in a fine of up to $1.13 billion."The resulting deaths, injuries, and damage to property were especially severe," the PUC administrative law judges wrote in their proposed ruling. "Several survivors endured months of hospitalization and rehabilitation, and still face long and difficult recoveries. Survivors experienced loss, emotional trauma, stress, acute insomnia, and post-traumatic stress disorder."The blast also destroyed 38 homes in San Bruno's Crestmoor district."The Crestmoor neighborhood was effectively wiped off the map," the judges wrote in their decision. "An entire community was displaced."Contact George Avalos at 408-859-5167. Follow him at Twitter.com/georgeavalos.