Low-Carb Reigns Over Low-Fat Diet For Weight Loss, Heart Health Low-Carb Reigns Over Low-Fat Diet For Weight Loss, Heart Health In the low-carb vs. low-fat diet wars, the low-carb camp may have won a slight advantage. A new study out today in Annals of Internal Medicine finds that after a year on their respective diets, participants following a low-carb regimen had lost significantly more weight than their low-fat counterparts. But not only this: The low-carb dieters also had improved markers of cardiovascular health, including better cholesterol and triglyceride levels. Though we don’t know how the story might change over the longer-term, in the first year, at least,&nbsp;it seems that&nbsp;the low-carb diet may be the better option for weight loss and heart health. 
The study recruited 150 obese men and women from 22 to 75 years old, and randomly assigned to stick to a low-carb or low-fat diet. None had any heart problems or diabetes at the outset, and about half were black and half white. People in the low-carb group were asked to eat less than 40 grams of carbohydrates per day. Those in the low-fat group were asked to keep their daily calorie intake at less than 30% coming from fat and 55% from carbohydrates (less than 7% of calories were supposed to come from saturated fat, but the participants didn’t actually achieve this part). Neither group was asked to restrict calories in any way, but all participants met individually at first, and then in a group for nutritional information and support sessions over the course of the study.
	
								 
&nbsp;  
 
 
  
  Meat (Photo credit: Wikipedia)
								
										
  
 
&nbsp; 
The main results clearly bode well for the low-carb diet for both weight loss and heart health: 
&nbsp; 
 
 At 3, 6, and 12 months, the low-carb dieters had lost significantly more weight than the low-fat dieters. 
 At the end of the year, the low-carb group had lost about 12 pounds, whereas the low-fat group has lost only 4. 
 The HDL (“good”) cholesterol levels rose more sharply in the low-carb group. 
 The HDL-to-total cholesterol ratio also rose more sharply in the low-carb group. 
 Those in the low-carb group had greater increases in lean muscle mass, where as those in the low-fat group lost more muscle compared to fat. 
 Those in the low-carb group had greater decreases in C-reactive protein (CRP), a measure of inflammation, than those in the low-fat group. 
 
&nbsp;
										
										 
Low-carb diets like the Atkins diet have been under a lot of scrutiny in recent years, with some critics raising concern over their potential heart risks. Since low-carb diets are often high in fat, it raises questions about whether they might be linked to more cost than benefit. But the new study seems to allay some of these concerns, and may in fact call into question the recommendations of organizations like the American Heart Association, which have long touted the benefits of a low-fat diet. Additionally, more and more studies have illustrated the benefits of fat-rich diets like the Mediterranean diet, for weight loss, overall health, and heart health. 
What’s also interesting about the study is that it included about equal numbers of black and white participants, which is relatively rare in this type of study. Also important is that the study was a randomized trial, which makes it more convincing than earlier observational studies, which have arrived at conflicting results about the benefits vs. the drawbacks of low-carb diets. 
Again, we don’t know how the situation might change over the longer term. But for the first year, the low-carb diet seems to be the better option, without any adverse effects, particularly in the way of cardiovascular risk. 
The authors conclude, “Restricting carbohydrates may be an option for persons who are seeking to lose weight and reduce cardiovascular risk factors and should be studied further.” 
Follow me&nbsp;@alicewalton&nbsp;or find me on&nbsp;Facebook.