Pad & Quill announces more luxurious leather Apple accessories Pad & Quill announces more luxurious leather Apple accessories 	

Minneapolis-based Pad &amp; Quill has become quite the manufacturer of luxury iPhone and iPad accessories in just a few years. Many of the Pad &amp; Quill cases, sleeves and wallets are now made of leather, bringing both a luxurious feel and durability to items made to protect your Apple devices while in transit. Recently, Pad &amp; Quill introduced a few new products, some of which we hope to review in the very near future. In the meantime, feast your eyes on the Attache Leather Bag (US$419.99 introductory price), the Oxford Case for iPad Air ($74.99 introductory price) and the Valet Luxury Sleeve for MacBook ($109.99 introductory price).For all of your future device carrying needs, you&apos;ll want to consider the Attache Leather Bag (images above and below), which has pockets for an iPad Air and up to a 15-inch MacBook Pro with Retina display. There&apos;s a 25-year warranty on the leather, pleated leather pockets in the front for carry other goodies, and strong hardware with a higher copper content for extra durability. It comes in Galloper Black and Dark Chocolate Brown, and deliveries will begin in mid to late September.Next up is the Oxford Case for iPad Air, which is cut from one piece of full grain American leather and lined with microfiber. Your iPad Air attaches to the case with a special adhesive developed by 3M and Pad &amp; Quill. The case is self-propping, providing one sweet-looking iPad stand that also keeps your device protected. The Oxford Case also comes in Galloper Black and Dark Chocolate Brown, and it will be available in mid-September.Last in the new product lineup is the Valet Luxury Sleeve for MacBook, which brings those same leather finishes to an attractive sleeve designed for 11-inch and 13-inch MacBooks. Under the flap you&apos;ll find pockets for an iPad and iPhone, making it easy to carry all of your tech in one lightweight and durable (25-year leather warranty) sleeve. The Valet Luxury Sleeve is shipping in late September.As mentioned earlier, we&apos;ll have a full review and giveaway of some of the new P&amp;Q products soon. In the meantime, all of these products are available for pre-order at special introductory prices.