Cee Lo Green makes controversial comments about rape Cee Lo Green makes controversial comments about rape Cee Lo Green made controversial comments about rape on Twitter, then temporarily deleted his account.How brave. Buzzfeed reported the former judge on "The Voice" wrote a series of tweets Sunday night comparing rape to a home invasion and implied women can only be rape victims if they are conscious."When someone brakes on a home there is broken glass," he wrote. "Where is your plausible proof anyone was raped?""Women who have really been raped REMEMBER!!!" he added."If someone is passed out they're not even WITH you consciously! so WITH implies consent."This is where my extensive journalism training kicks in and I somehow refrain from saying Cee Lo Green is a complete moron.Green seems a little bitter. On Friday, the singer pleaded no contest to slipping ecstasy to a woman in 2012, according to the New York Daily News. Green was accused of secretly giving the drug to a woman while they were out at dinner.Apparently, he didn't have a lot of confidence in himself. The woman alleged that Green spiked her drink and "next thing" she knew, she woke up naked in her hotel room with him.The plea allowed the 39-year-old Green to maintain his innocence and avoid jail time. He was instead sentenced to three years of probation and 360 hours of community service for the felony drug conviction. Citing lack of evidence, prosecutors didn't pursue sexual assault charges.He addressed his plea two days later by writing "so if I TRIED but did NOT succeed but the person said I DID then what really happened?"Buzzfeed reported Green issued an apology of sorts before deleting his Twitter account."Let me 1st praise god for exoneration fairness &amp; freedom! Secondly I sincerely apologize for my comments being taken so far out of context," he said. "I only intended on a healthy exchange to help heal those who love me from the pain I had already caused from this. Please forgive me as it."" ... was your support that got me thru this to begin with," Green concluded. "I'd never condone the harm of any women. Thank you."No. He would just slip them drugs without their consent ... allegedly.Green has since reactivated his Twitter account, but hasn't commented on the topic again. Green's rep didn't immediately respond to the Daily News' request for comment.  Contact Tony Hicks at Facebook.com/BayAreaNewsGroup.TonyHicks or Twitter.com/tonyhicks67.