Camilla Luddington likes to run with Zombies Camilla Luddington likes to run with Zombies LOS ANGELES — Camilla Luddington's day job is co-starring in ABC's Grey's Anatomy, which starts its 11th season on Sept. 25.But by day, when not on the set, she's all about Lara Croft. Luddington is the voice and likeness of Croft in the smash video game, Tomb Raider.Her first game was released in 2012, and she's working on the new one now, which will be released next year. Grey's is the easy job, as she told us in a recent visit to the USA TODAY offices here.BEING LARAWorking with animators for Lara requires coming to work and enduring a process that includes having fluorescent paint airbrushed on your face. "It's much more realistic, and the capture is just unbelievable." When it's all set, "I feel like a creature from (the hit film) Avatar when it's all on my face."GAMINGShe grew up playing Sonic the Hedgehog on the Sega game system, and while she owns the Xbox One, she's not very good, she says. "I play my own game, and I'm horrible at it."TINDER ON THE SETMany crew members on Grey's are "obsessed" with the Tinder dating app, which attempts to match folks using nothing more than photos of singles. "It's very interesting that people are making snap judgments within half a second. They're just going off face value. That seems like a very odd process to find somebody."DEVICESShe never uses her Apple laptop: "I haven't turned it on in two years." What device would she take to a desert island? "My iPhone. For the music, texting, everything." And what would Lara Croft bring? "The same device. She likes to do her video diaries, she's always needing to call for help, and she does listen to music."JOGGING WITH ZOMBIESTo get inspired while running, she downloaded the Zombies Run 3 app ($3.99, Apple, Android.) which runs your music along with commentary from zombies. "You time it to your songs, and as you run, it makes it seem as if you're being chased by zombies. It's actually like being in a video game. For me, it gives me a reason to run."Follow Jefferson Graham on Twitter