Piper Jaffray's Apple Analyst Raises Price Target To $120 Piper Jaffray's Apple Analyst Raises Price Target To $120 Piper Jaffray’s Apple analyst, Gene Munster, raised his price target from $105 to $120 based on new products and services such as an iWatch, HomeKit, HealthKit and payments. He wouldn’t be surprised that the first weekend iPhone sales could be a bit disappointing since last year had the 5c’s channel fill but that would only be a short-term issue. While he analyzes the 5c’s channel fill in detail it isn’t until the last sentence of the analysis that he brings up the iPhone 6 could have significant channel fill and more than offset the 5c’s impact. 
Doesn’t believe an iWatch will be announced
	
								 
Munster is not fully convinced that an iWatch will be announced as it would dilute an iPhone announcement (and related functionality around it). He gives it a 50% probability of occurring next week. If it doesn’t see the light of day next Tuesday then he believes it will be announced in October or November and be available for the holiday quarter. 
It wouldn’t surprise me if there is a several months delay between an iWatch announcement and first shipment. The iPhone was announced in January 9, 2007, and became available on June 29 while the iPad was announced on January 27, 2010, with projected initial shipment in late March (the actual first day of iPad availability was April 3). Apple may want developers a chance to build or port apps to give it better functionality at its initial availability.
								
										 
iPhone channel fill could have a significant affect on announced first weekend sales 
Munster believes Apple’s channel inventory dynamics had a significant affect on the 9 million iPhone 5c’s and 5s’ the company reported being sold in the first weekend last year. For the September 2013 quarter the company reported that there were 3.3 million iPhones added to channel inventory vs. the prior quarter and the year before there had only been an 800,000 increase. 
He does believe that if there are no supply constraints (I’d say unlikely if Sapphire glass is used for the full screen even on one form factor iPhone) and Apple is able to fill the channel for the December quarter the company could report 14 million iPhones sold in the first weekend. I don’t think anyone seriously expects this high of a number but it wouldn’t surprise me if Apple is able to exceed 10 million. It will be totally dependent on supply since there seems to be more than enough demand for larger screen iPhones. 
Munster believes both a 4.7” and 5.5” iPhone to be announced with Sapphire glass on the 64GB versions. This would allow Apple to test customer response, allow manufacturing yields and production to ramp with Sapphire eventually migrating to the full range of future iPhones.
										
										 

 
 Source: MacStories
 
&nbsp; 
He places a 70% percentage on a payments solution to be announced next week 
Munster believes that an NFC chip will be included with the new iPhones and that if it is there will be a payments solution tied to it. It could also leverage its iBeacon technology. I agree with his statement “we do not believe Apple introduces features to its devices just to introduce features”. The company has a well thought out road map and technology such as TouchID is done for a reason, not just for gee whiz excitement. 
To get a feeling on how the stock may react to the various product and feature announcements next week this is a link to a post I wrote describing over a dozen potential items that Apple may launch. 
Munster did not increase his earnings estimates 
For fiscal 2015 Munster is estimating $6.32 in EPS and $191 billion in revenue vs. the Street average of $7.05 and $197 billion. It looks like he is leaving a fair amount of wiggle room for Apple to exceed his estimates. 
He is projecting $6.54 in calendar 2015 EPS vs. $6.29 this year which is only a 4% increase. His higher $120 price target is 18.3x his calendar 2015 estimate vs. a 16x prior multiple. 
 
Follow me on Twitter&nbsp;@sandhillinsight. You can find my&nbsp;other Forbes posts here.
