(PR) Creative Reveals the Sound Blaster X7 (PR) Creative Reveals the Sound Blaster X7 Creative Technology Ltd today announced the Sound Blaster X7, its most powerful and technologically advanced audio solution to date. Created to provide only the best audio experience for gamers, the Sound Blaster X7 incorporates Creative's renowned audio processing technologies with the finest audiophile-grade components and specifications, coupled with a whole slew of advanced features to cover all aspects of usage on different platforms.

Designed to connect with a whole range of gaming and entertainment systems, the Sound Blaster X7 functions as an ultra high-end external Sound Blaster with an impressive 24-bit/192kHz high-resolution 127dB digital-to-analog converter (DAC) and 100 W-capable audio amplifier. The result: the clearest, most powerful high-resolution audio experience for games, music and movies.  
"The world has changed, and so must Sound Blaster. The answer is the Sound Blaster X7. Audio content for games, music and movies has changed so incredibly in detail and complexity in this day and age, and consumed on so many platforms -- PCs, laptops, smart devices, TVs and game consoles to name a few -- and by many different generations of users. Our goal is to allow all these users of all these platforms to enjoy the best audio in the way it's meant to be heard, and in the way they want to hear it. That's why we've created the Sound Blaster X7. It is absolutely the biggest, baddest, and boldest Sound Blaster to date," says Wong Hoo Sim, CEO of Creative.

"It boasts the biggest array of features of any Sound Blaster, including an unprecedented kick-ass built-in power amplifier, cross-platform connectivity, and our proprietary intelligent audio enhancement technologies. It is the baddest player in the arena of entertainment audio -- we have spared no effort in spoiling our users with only the finest of the finest audiophile-grade components that deliver the absolute best audio performance. We have no concern for cost as long as our users get the best of the best. We splurged on exquisite Fine-Gold capacitors just to squeeze out that last drop of performance on top of the already superb audio quality. We even indulged our users' wish to have swappable op-amps to customize their audio's tonal characteristics. And the boldest, because we dared to overcome mountains of obstacles to create an ultra premium audiophile-grade device and fuse it with such a mind-blowing list of features; and then compress all of it into one stylish compact trapezoidal prism that can be easily connected to the PC and just about anything else. So if you've always aspired to pwn the Everest of Audio, seek no further. It's here."

The Sound Blaster X7 for Captivating and Adrenaline-Pumping Games
Users of the Sound Blaster X7 will gain full access to Creative's extensive suite of advanced audio enhancement technologies through the built-in SB-Axx1 multi-core DSP that deliver an all-new standard of audio realism for games. This functionality is especially pertinent to capture and reproduce the incredibly detailed audio created alongside the immensely compelling graphics and expansive environments found in today's popular gaming titles, such as Battlefield 4, Titanfall and Skyrim.

With the Sound Blaster X7's massive connectivity options, users who game on PCs, laptops, game consoles, tablets, smartphones and even TVs can now enjoy the full benefits of these enhancement technologies. Upgrading to the external Sound Blaster X7 is a breeze -- just plug and play!

The Sound Blaster X7 for Mellifluous and Beyond Pristine Music
Today, average users -- and even audiophiles -- store most of their music on their PCs, Macs, smartphones and tablets. The Sound Blaster X7 connects to these devices while boasting the finest components and top-notch specifications that allow users to enjoy ultra high-resolution music the way it was recorded in the studio.

These components and amplification capabilities allow the Sound Blaster X7 to deliver amazing audio quality even by audiophile standards on passive bookshelf and tower speakers.

Audiophile-grade components, features, and specifications:Burr-Brown (PCM1794) 127dB digital-to-analog converter (DAC) supports high-resolution audio playback of HD audio tracks up to 24-bit/192kHz when connected to PC/Mac, including 24-bit/88.2kHz and 24-bit/176.4kHzTexas Instruments (TPA6120A2) 600ohm headphone amplifier is capable of driving audiophile-grade headphones, with full and detailed clarityHigh power, high efficiency Texas Instruments Class D amplifier (TPA3116D2) delivers up to 100W power (2 x 50W @ 4ohm)* to passive bookshelf and tower speakersBurr-Brown (PCM4220) 123dB analog-to-digital converter (ADC) delivers high quality, low noise analog line-in audio playback and audio recording of up to 24-bit/192kHzNichicon "Fine Gold" capacitors offers rich sound in the bass register and clearer highsUSB 2.0 Host connectivity allows direct streaming of high quality, lossless audio from Android and iOS devicesAsynchronous Mode USB Audio greatly reduces jitter and allows accurate high-resolution audio data transfer from the computerSwappable op-amps for customizable tonalityASIO support allows for reduced latency for a higher resolution audio experienceGold-plated audio connectors create precise contact for low signal loss*100 W speaker output requires upgrade to high power adapter (24V 6A).Supplied power adapter provides up to 2 X 38W @ 4ohm.The Sound Blaster X7 for Immersive and Explosive Movies
With the advent of high-speed broadband, users have easy access to HD and Ultra HD movies through download sites and streaming solutions such as Netflix. These sites and services have upped the ante of users' expectations in terms of the visual quality of their entertainment, but they are often let down by subpar audio from inferior sound systems.

The Sound Blaster X7 will bring TV and movie audio to a whole new level of detail and realism. Users can connect the Sound Blaster X7 to their existing sound systems and enjoy the full suite of Sound Blaster processing for real-time audio enhancement. For instance, SBX Crystalizer is able to emphasize subtle audio details that were previously unheard, while SBX Bass enhances low frequency audio for an impactful experience, for example, with explosions in fast-paced action movies and shows. SBX Smart Volume on the other hand, intelligently minimizes abrupt volume level changes during playback and between commercials.

Users will also be able to enjoy a cinematic audio experience via the Sound Blaster X7's built-in Dolby Digital decoding technology that delivers powerful 5.1 discrete channels of high-quality surround sound for supported content via their speaker systems.

Ultra High Fidelity Digital Audio Superhighway
The Sound Blaster X7 provides a digital audio superhighway starting right from the original uncompressed audio from the PC/Mac, through a high-speed USB 2.0 digital audio path, to a high-resolution 24-bit/192kHz 127dB DAC, immediately coupled directly to a powerful 100 W built-in amplifier. Connect to any high-end passive speaker system that users have yearned for, and savor the deeply stirring music as it comes alive with stunning details!

Extensive Connectivity Options
The Sound Blaster X7 boasts a full range of convenient audio input and output connectivity options that allow it to serve as the ultimate audio upgrade for most sound systems.

Listen from all audio sources:Digital High-Speed USB 2.0 connectivity to PC/Mac as an ultra high-end external Sound BlasterDigital USB Host connectivity to select iOS/Android models for direct high quality, lossless audio streaming^Optical S/PDIF-Input connectivity to televisions and gaming consolesFeatures wireless Bluetooth 4.1 Low Energy connectivity and Near Field Communication (NFC) technology for one-touch Bluetooth pairing. Also supports HD audio codecs such as aptX Low Latency and AAC for a wireless connection as good as a wired connection, and Creative Multipoint for up to two simultaneous Bluetooth connectionsFeatures an RCA Line-In (Right and Left) option for analog connectivity to other various audio sourcesFeatures a 3.5mm Mic-InPlay to any speaker system and headphones:Gold-plated 2-Way binding post terminal connectors for passive bookshelf and tower speakers (bare wires/banana plug connectivity). Comes with a switch for impedance selection5.1 analog connectivity for surround soundOptical S/PDIF-Output connectivity1/4″ (6.3mm) headphone out1/8″ (3.5mm) headphone outOther Great FeaturesFor additional real-time audio enhancement for music, movies and games, the built-in multi-core SB-Axx1 audio processor allows users to activate Sound Blaster's intelligent processing capabilities via the SBX Pro Studio suite of technologies -- all at a touch of a button. It can also be switched off when listening to lossless audioWith the built-in beamforming CrystalVoice microphone array, the Sound Blaster X7 becomes an intelligent speakerphone for crystal clear voice calls when connected to PCs, Macs, smartphones and tablets. Users can even record their conversations when connected to a PC/MacCrystalVoice FX allows users to morph their voice into different characters (male, female, orc, alien, elderly, robot, scrappy kid, and more) in games, chats, phone and video calls, and recordingsTotal audio control over Sound Blaster X7 on any platform -- PC, Mac, iOS or Android. The Sound Blaster X7 Control Panel for PC/Mac users, while the Sound Blaster Central mobile application for iOS and Android devices gives users full access to customize their audio settings, like a remote control right in the palm of their handPricing and Availability
The Creative Sound Blaster X7, priced at USD399.99, will be available in December 2014 at the online store at creative.com.
For in-store availability, please refer to local authorized dealers.

For more information about the Creative Sound Blaster X7, please visit www.soundblaster.com/X7.