Icontrol Networks Makes Play To Build Smart Home Ecosystem Around Its Platform Icontrol Networks Makes Play To Build Smart Home Ecosystem Around Its Platform Over the past few months, many of the big consumer tech mega brands have laid down some of their cards to show us what their smart home platforms will look like. &nbsp;Apple announced HomeKit, Google's Nest has Works With Nest and Thread, while Samsung bought a fledgling smart home ecosystem “in a box” with Smart Things. 
While these moves marked the entry by the broader tech industry into the smart home, these companies were actually late to the smart home party compared to Icontrol Networks. That’s because for the past few years, Icontrol has been helping some of the largest service providers in North America roll out smart home services through their OpenHome software platform, including names like Comcast, Time Warner, Bell Aliant and ADT.
	
								 
But despite their early lead, they’ve &nbsp;watched as companies who build platforms for startups in the fast growing DIY smart home space get most of the press. That might change, now, as today the company announced a two-pronged play to build a broader smart home ecosystem around OpenHome. 
The first announcement is the creation of OpenHome Labs, a program tailored towards smart home product startups where Icontrol offers technical support such as API and RF design help, helps shepherd companies through certification around its “carrier grade” software, and eventually helps them find channels to market through its service provider partners and retail.
								
										 
The second announcement, the more interesting of the two, is a partnership with crowdfunding site Indiegogo. Indiegogo is one of the more popular crowdfunding platforms for smart home products such as the Korner home security system and the Goji smart lock, and this new partnership gives hardware companies running campaigns on Indiegogo access to OpenHome Labs at no cost. 
The deal makes sense for both companies. For Indiegogo, the crowdfunding site is smart to look for ways to help their hardware partners to succeed, and some of the biggest long-term hurdles for these companies is getting from concept to production and finding distribution. &nbsp;The Icontrol deal can help on both fronts. 
For Icontrol, this deal gives them potential early access to some of the interesting hardware products coming out of the crowdfunding world, which has become the new angel/seed funding mechanism of choice for hardware startups in particular. 
Overall I think the pair of announcements are a sign that Icontrol is not going to remain idle as new players enter the market. Google, Apple and Samsung make for attractive partners for hardware startups because they bring with &nbsp;both legitimacy and lots of ready-made devices to plug into. However, Icontrol, with its 22 million devices in the field, is not only a more mature platform but also provides a pathway to market through integration with large service provider’s smart home services, something that even the “big three” of consumer tech can’t match.
										
										 
Michael Wolf is a smart home analyst with NextMarket. You can see his DIY smart home report exec summary here or follow him on Twitter @michaelwolf to stay up to date on smart home news.