Skyhigh Networks Delivers Advanced Data Governance Solution for Box Customers Skyhigh Networks Delivers Advanced Data Governance Solution for Box Customers Cloud visibility company Skyhigh is on something of a roll. When high profile customer GE chose similarly high-profile file sharing vendor Box as the solution of choice across its 300,000 employees, it also chose Skyhigh to wrap Box’s platform is a governance, security and visibility wrapper. 
The theory goes that large enterprises want to use a cloud file sharing product, but need to do so within a centralized policy framework that ensures data governance compliance while still allowing the functionality of the cloud platform to shine. This is the area Skyhigh works in and the company is today extending its Box partnership by way of a tightly integrated data governance solution for Box customers. According to the company, Skyhigh for box allows for: 
	
								 
 
 Collaboration Control: Skyhigh’s policy-driven framework enables organizations to enforce collaboration controls that define which documents can be shared externally based on attributes such as domains. 
 Contextual Access Control: In addition to user and device, Skyhigh’s access control policies allow organizations to enforce authorized access to Box based on geography. 
 Compromised Account and Insider Threat Detection: Skyhigh’s big data analytics and machine learning algorithms proactively identify behavior indicative of compromised accounts or insider threat across all cloud services and at a granular level within the Box environment. 
 Advanced CloudDLP: Skyhigh’s comprehensive data loss prevention policies help address a wider set of use cases with new capabilities such as Boolean logic to combine rules, rule severity, and conditional response actions. 
 Integration with On-premise DLP Solutions: Skyhigh also provides closed-loop remediation with existing DLP solutions from Symantec, EMC RSA, and McAfee, enabling organizations to leverage their existing investments in people, processes, and technology for data in the Cloud. 
 Mobile and Sync Client Support: In addition to the browser, Skyhigh supports mobile and sync clients, enabling customers to apply data governance policies as employees collaborate and securely share files from any computer, phone, or tablet 
 
It’s interesting news on its own, but all the more so in context of what is an increasingly confusing array of similar vendors all minting partnerships with Box. Only last week Skyhigh competitor Netskope announced its own Box partnership, in their case it involved the delivery of automated “coaching message” to help customer deliver compliant best-practice in terms of file sharing. 
In talking up this partnership, Box CEO Aaron Levie pointed to the balance of cloud benefits with compliance:
								
										 

 …Our partnership with Skyhigh ensures that these businesses can always meet the strictest data governance requirements.
 
I find that interesting on a couple of levels. Firstly, at first blush it is a little jarring that something as important as data governance is being handed off to a third party. I accept however that there is an argument that suggests that these sort of governance services should be a third party fabric that straddles all of the apps an organization uses. Enterprises with multiple cloud solutions&nbsp;don’t want to deal with the invariable silos created by each cloud service’s policy-driven data security and governance. &nbsp;They want a consistent set of policies to be applied across multiple cloud services. &nbsp;It is not likely for any one of the end-point cloud services to provide data security and governance policies that consistently will be enforced across multiple end-point cloud services. &nbsp;This is an architectural issue similar to the way identity management became a horizontal layer across applications. For these reasons I can accept some governance needs are best delivered by a third party – the question is how much of what Skyhigh is doing here would be more rightly delivered natively by Box. 
Somewhat counter to this issue is the fact that Skyhigh is selling itself as a “trusted third party”. Part of its value proposition is that it delivers visibility to organizations about the services being used within and outside of their firewall. As such it needs to remain untainted by any one particular vendor. On some levels a deep partnership such as the one being announced today is troubling. 
There is another concern and that is the fact that there are several vendors apparently partnering with Box to deliver this or similar services – Netskope, Cipher Cloud and Skyhigh for example. Customers are left to intuit who is best, most reliable, most robust or most tightly integrated. In making this determination about who is most deeply anointed by Box, customers need to look to external signs. The fact that GE chose Skyhigh to protect itself in the context of cloud file sharing, speaks legions for the platform.
										
										 
I like what Skyhigh is delivering for cloud uptake generally and Box in particular. The fact that I think Box should deliver this itself isn’t a criticism of Skyhigh but rather a general comment on the way products work. In terms of what will happen in this highly competitive space – stay tuned. 
Connect with Ben on Twitter&nbsp;@benkepes&nbsp;|&nbsp;LinkedIn&nbsp;|&nbsp;AngelList