The Unexpected Skill That Job Seekers Need To Get Hired The Unexpected Skill That Job Seekers Need To Get Hired When it comes to finding a job, meeting the minimum requirements isn’t enough to get you hired. There are many other qualified candidates who can check all the boxes too. So how can you gain a competitive edge? 
Get ready for your close-up because video has become as essential as the resume – (even if you aren’t currently looking for a job). Whether you’re pounding the pavement, angling for a promotion, or building your client base, there are three types of videos you need to master.
	
								 
1. Video interviews. 
More and more, hiring managers are using video to interview candidates.&nbsp;Studies from 2012&nbsp;indicate that about 63% of HR managers said their companies conduct job interviews via video, a huge increase over just 14% in 2011. It makes sense that video is booming in popularity; it’s an inexpensive way to enrich the experience of learning about a job candidate, and it lets managers extend the pool by eliminating geographic boundaries. Some video interviews are conducted in real-time using Skype or other videoconferencing tools – meaning you have one chance to deliver that amazing first impression.
								
										 
 
Other companies are using video interviewing tools that allow candidates to record their responses to a series of questions. This scenario gives you series of “takes” to make sure you get it right. Regardless of the format, if you don’t master the video interview, you probably won’t end up on the short-list – even if, in reality, you’re the ideal candidate. Here are some tips for making a great impression: 
Set the Scene 
Be a techie. Don’t get tripped up by the technology. The good news is that video hardware and software are now incredibly user-friendly. If you can operate your cell phone, you can operate a video camera. Get comfortable with the equipment you’re going to use. Test it out in advance. Troubleshoot beforehand; you don’t want technical issues to impact your ability to get hired. Being comfortable with video is a great way to show that you are tech savvy. &nbsp;
										
										 
Create the environment. That means build your make-shift studio. Find the place where the lighting is perfect, the audio sounds clear and your background is not distracting. Your performance could be stellar, but if the interviewer is distracted by the books teetering on the shelves behind you, they’ll miss out on your brilliance. &nbsp; 
Plan your wardrobe. Some colors and fabrics look terrible on video. If you’re wearing white and sitting in front of a white wall, you will disappear into the background. Often, stripes show up as blurry distortions. Choose the outfit that is not only appropriate for the interview but that also makes you look your best on camera. 
Do a Dress Rehearsal &nbsp; 
Practice. Work with a friend or colleague to practice asking each other questions and providing feedback. Or try answering the questions in front of a mirror until it stops feeling weird and starts to feel comfortable. Practice talking about the standard interview topics: Tell me about yourself. Why do you want to work here? What’s your greatest weakness? This will get you in the groove for the actual performance. &nbsp; 
Know where to look.&nbsp;Even though the interviewer shows up on your screen, your camera is above the screen. Look into the camera, not at the interviewer. It’s the only way to simulate making “eye contact” with the interviewer. If you focus on the incoming image, you’ll look like you’re casting your eyes down in shame. Get used to looking at the camera even if it feels a bit weird. 
2. Video&nbsp;bio. 
Video is not just important for the interview. A one-to-three minute video bio or thought-leadership video can be a powerful tool for standing out in a job search. It helps you build emotional connections with the viewer and gives you a much richer way to express your credentials. Once you create it, post it to your YouTube channel and embed it into your LinkedIn profile – making it visible to the people who are seeking to learn about you. Here’s a video I put together with advice for preparing an outstanding video bio (full disclosure, I prepared this video for videoBIO – a partner of my company, Reach and I reference a Reach product, 360Reach in the video). 
 
  3. Video communications. 
Another great way to stand out in the job search is to use video when you are the one initiating communication with your hiring manager. When you submit your resume using email, you can include a video introduction. This is sort of like delivering a pre-interview, and it will definitely help your message stand out from all those traditional cover letters. Likewise, you can make a splash after the interview by sending a thank you video in your email, expressing appreciation to those you met for their time and interest. As with all video, quality is critical – so use the tips from number 1 above to help. There’s no reason for poor quality; you can practice until your production is perfect. 
Video was a skill once reserved for CEOs and spokespeople. Today, it is an essential skill in the job search and personal branding process. Mastering video will help you stand out as a tech-savvy, creative candidate. It will also help you build emotional connections with decision makers and ultimately get the job. 
How will you use video to differentiate yourself? 
Follow me on&nbsp;Twitter&nbsp;and check out my latest book,&nbsp;Ditch. Dare. Do! 3D Personal Branding for Executives.