The Samsung Gear S makes Fleksy its day-one integrated keyboard The Samsung Gear S makes Fleksy its day-one integrated keyboard Fleksy is one of the more recognizable names when it comes to third-party keyboard apps and it&#8217;s about to get a little more recognizable. Fleksy has announced a new partnership with Samsung which will see the new Samsung Gear S smartwatch make Fleksy its only fully-integrated keyboard at launch and is going to be free for all Gear S owners. This makes a lot of sense for the Gear S seeing as it will be a standalone device able to make calls and access mobile data, and having Fleksy there will make it all the more simple to type commands on the Gear S&#8217;s curved display.
Of their partnership with Samsung, Fleksy founder Ioannis Verdelis had this to say: &#8220;We are delighted to announce our first OEM partnership today, and we are excited to be part of the Samsung ecosystem&#8230; This is a big milestone for Fleksy, and we plan to solidify our position as the leading typing technology for smart devices over the coming months.&#8221;
Fleksy is already available as an option on the Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo with their messaging app, so this new move seems like the next logical step in their relationship with the Korean tech giant.

Press Release

Fleksy partners with Samsung to bring its keyboard to Samsung Gear S
First OEM partnership for Fleksy keyboard
SAN FRANCISCO — September 03, 2014 — Fleksy, the fastest keyboard in the world, announced a partnership with Samsung today to bring its keyboard to the newly launched Samsung Gear S smartwatch.
The partnership makes Fleksy the only fully integrated third-party keyboard on Gear S on launch day, allowing users to type in every app right from their wrist. Through the partnership, Fleksy will be available for free for all Gear S users.
“We are delighted to announce our first OEM partnership today, and we are excited to be part of the Samsung ecosystem” said Ioannis Verdelis, Founder and CEO of Fleksy. “This is a big milestone for Fleksy, and we plan to solidify our position as the leading typing technology for smart devices over the coming months”.





Fleksy confirmed it will also continue support for its Fleksy Messenger app, available for Samsung Gear 2 and Gear 2 Neo smartwatches, with a major update coming soon.
“With thousands of daily downloads of Fleksy Messenger, we are already publishing one of the Top 3 selling apps of the Gear ecosystem” said Kosta Eleftheriou, Founder and CEO of Fleksy. “We are very excited by the growth of the wearable tech market, and proud Fleksy has already established itself as the leader for typing on watches”.
Fleksy confirmed that it will be providing demonstrations of its keyboard on Samsung Gear S during the IFA trade show taking place in Berlin this week.
About Fleksy
Fleksy is a next-generation keyboard powered by patent-pending technology that makes typing on any device fast, accurate and so easy you can even type without looking. Fleksy recently broke the Guinness World Record for fastest typing on a touchscreen keyboard (May 2014).
Its unique language algorithm founded on Geometric Intelligence moves beyond text prediction and autocorrect, to give a much more accurate and easier typing experience than last-generation keyboards.
Winner of the prestigious “Golden Apple” award, Fleksy is the first keyboard to enable full-speed typing by blind iPhone users. Winner of the 2013 CES “Innovations Design and Engineering Award”, Fleksy is also the first keyboard app to be shipped on a SmartWatch, the first to arrive on iOS, the first to work on 3D gesture systems (Leap Motion) and the first app developer to integrate with the Samsung Gear 2.
Fleksy’s award-winning design and technology is backed by venture capital including Highland Capital Partners and Kleiner Perkins Caufield &amp; Byers. To learn more about Fleksy, visit http://www.fleksy.com.
About Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. is a global leader in technology, opening new possibilities for people everywhere. Through relentless innovation and discovery, we are transforming the worlds of TVs, smartphones, tablets, PCs, cameras, home appliances, printers, LTE systems, medical devices, semiconductors and LED solutions. We employ 286,000 people across 80 countries with annual sales of US$216.7 billion. To discover more, please visit www.samsung.com.