WD My Passport Wireless: The Personal Cloud You Can Take With You WD My Passport Wireless: The Personal Cloud You Can Take With You The WD My Passport Wireless is a paperback-sized hard drive that can connect to up to eight different devices simultaneously.Image:  Mashable,  Christina Ascani

One of the lessons people are taking from the recent celebrity photo hack, rightly or wrongly, is that you can't trust the cloud. Of course, the question then becomes: Where do you put your digital stuff?
WD has an answer for you: My Passport Wireless. The device is a portable hard drive about the size of a paperback book, and it can connect to up to eight different devices simultaneously via Wi-Fi, letting you access your pics (nude selfies or otherwise), videos, music and files anywhere you are.

The drive works with PCs and Macs, but it's really meant to work with mobile devices: smartphones and tablets. When you pair it with the WD My Cloud app, you can transfer files back and forth, automatically back up photos and videos (manual on iOS, though) and play back large media files, letting you keep your device storage relatively free.
If you're taking the family on a road trip, for example, up to four passengers in the car could share the drive to simultaneously play HD movies. My Passport Wireless is equipped with dual-antenna multiple-input-multiple-output tech that can transfer data at up to 80 megabits per second, and the drive's battery can last for six hours of continuous streaming.
Photographers get an extra bonus: an SD card slot that can offload the contents of the card automatically. You can set it up to quickly transfer the pics and then erase the card, letting you get back to shooting quickly. There's also a USB 3.0 port for high-speed transfers.
The My Passport Wireless went on sale Tuesday for $129.99 for 500GB, $179.99 for 1TB and $219.99 for 2TB. Putting your data on something like WD's wireless drive doesn't make it unhackable, but at least someone would have to do more than just guess your iCloud password.
Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.