(PR) Samsung Brings Ultra High Definition to the Desktop with New UD970 Monitor (PR) Samsung Brings Ultra High Definition to the Desktop with New UD970 Monitor Samsung Electronics America, Inc. today announced the availability of its new 32-inch-class Ultra High Definition (UHD) professional desktop monitor, the UD970. With four times the number of pixels compared to standard monitors, 99.5% Adobe RGB and 100% sRGB color compliance, the Samsung UD970 is ideal for professionals that require high resolution and accurate image reproduction, such as video and photo editing, graphic design, mapping and simulation, architecture, engineering and more.

"For today's professionals, UHD display technology unlocks a new dimension of rich and detailed imagery, enabling them to take their creativity and productivity to a new level," said Tod Pike, Senior Vice President of Samsung's Enterprise Business Division. "Samsung has a long history of leadership in display technologies and we're excited to bring this new advancement to creative professionals and enterprise users." 
Superior UHD Resolution
The UD970's UHD display features a 31.5-inch low-glare PLS 178-degree wide viewing angle panel with a sleek, elegant design that has 40 percent more viewing area than a standard 27-inch monitor. With support for 3840 x 2160 resolution, users have much more room for their content compared to a standard monitor.

Leading Color Accuracy and Calibration
The Samsung UD970 monitor provides true 10-bit color support capable of displaying over 1 billion colors and meets 100% of sRGB and 99.5% of Adobe RGB specifications. In addition, the Samsung Natural Color Expert engine with 16-bit hardware calibration and 11 selectable color space settings enable the UD970 to deliver image quality to meet each professional's specific needs.

Dual and Quad Split Screen and Ergonomic Stand
To maximize efficiency and multitasking, the UD970 includes an adjustable stand with 30-degree left-right swivel and 90-degree pivot capabilities for portrait and landscape orientations that provides users better ergonomics. In addition, users can use the Picture By Picture function to split the screen into two or four quadrants and display unique video signals in each.

The new Samsung UD970 will be available later this month with MAP price of $1999.99, and can be purchased through Samsung resellers and channel partners. Availability can be determined by calling 1-866-SAM-4BIZ or by visiting this page. For more information about Samsung's profession desktop display solutions, please visit this page.