Samsung Galaxy Edge Looks Like the Future Samsung Galaxy Edge Looks Like the Future When it comes to gadget reporting, the word "futuristic" is overused. But Samsung's Galaxy Edge smartphone, which brandishes a thin, curved screen along the right side, definitely qualifies for the label.
The Galaxy Edge isn't like anything we've seen before. Sure, there have been curved screens, but those are models where the whole screen is curved, not just the edge. The Galaxy Edge is basically two screens in one: a gorgeous main Quad HD display (2,560 x 1,440) that's identical to the one on the Galaxy Note 4, and a thin strip populated with icons, widgets or useful information.

In my hands-on with the Galaxy Edge, I found it worked surprisingly well. It's intuitive to use, and it has very good detection for "false positives" — I hardly ever accidentally activated it with a stray fingertip. You can easily swipe through its various screens, including a news ticker, S Health data (like steps counted), the weather and more.
When the main display is showing the home screen, the edge defaults to a go-to column of apps, which you can customize. The icons fade away when you're in an app, but you can bring them back with a swipe of your thumb, and then a single tap will switch you over. It's arguably faster and more natural than going through Android's app switcher.
Samsung added a few edge-display widgets, too, including a stopwatch and a timer. My favorite is the ruler, which you can toggle between centimeters and inches. Why not?

You can call up a ruler on the Samsung Galaxy Edge.Image:  Mashable,  Christina AscaniYou can also customize the wallpaper for the edge, selecting from any photo (or a combination of photos) and a series of filters. Moving the phone back and forth will move the image slightly. Trust me, the effect is actually incredibly cool.
Most importantly, Samsung will release an API for the edge display, so apps can use the screen in clever ways. Samsung is showing the way with the camera UI — all the controls are on the edge strip, while the main screen shows nothing but images. 
If you're a lefty, you don't need to wait for Samsung to release a left-handed version. Just flip the phone upside-down, and the entire display will rotate 180 degrees. Of course, the home button will be on top, but you can't have everything.
Apart from the clever edge display, the Galaxy Edge is a Galaxy Note 4, complete with stylus. It has the same specs and features, including optical image stabilization (OIS) for the camera and a fingerprint reader in the home button. However, it won't be compatible with the Gear VR virtual-reality headset right out of the gate; that's Note 4-only.
The Galaxy Edge comes in black and white, and will be available in the fall. Although no price has been set, it's a safe bet that it'll be more expensive than the Note 4.


Hands On With the Samsung Galaxy Edge







The Edge of the Future
The Samsung Galaxy Edge brandishes a curved edge screen along the side of its main display. Its default mode is to show a strip of most-used apps, which the user can customize. 










Widgets
In addition to apps, there's a widget strip, including a stopwatch, flashlight, ruler and voice recorder.










Screensaver
You can customize the edge display with your own screensaver.










S Health Data
The display can show data from S Health.










Ruler
One clever widget is a ruler, which you can toggle between inches and centimeters.










News Scroll
News and sports scores can scroll along the edge.










Also a Note 4
The Galaxy Edge has the same specs and features as the Galaxy Note 4, including the stylus.








Have something to add to this story? Share it in the comments.