Samsung Announces Galaxy Note 4, Gear VR Device, And Note Edge In Major Launch Samsung Announces Galaxy Note 4, Gear VR Device, And Note Edge In Major Launch Samsung announced three new devices on Wednesday in a global simulcast presentation, showing off bigger screens for the ‘selfie taking world.’ 
The biggest device announcement is the new Note 4, the big-screen flagship smartphone for Samsung. It’s still going for more is better, as a company executive announced the phone will make for “selfies with even more people!” through its front and back cameras.&nbsp;The Note 4 has a Quad HD Super AMOLED display that will improve resolution and quality, though the actual screen size remains the same. The camera’s been beefed up to 16 megapixels. There’s a multi-window to take advantage of the screen’s large size and an S-pen to write.
	
								 
The Note 4 launches in the U.S. in October, according to Samsung. 
The Note Edge is a bit quirkier, a phone with a ticker-like bar that runs horizontally on the edge of the phone. That display can be changed to show email or other top-priority information like the weather, and turns into an alarm clock at night. Samsung also announced an open Edge SDK for developers to play with the new bar.
								
										 
What’s perhaps strangest about the Note Edge–its edge is literal, one side curved to hold. The Note Edge will go on sale “later in the fall.” Like the Galaxy Note 4, it’ll be on all four major carriers. 
The&nbsp;Gear&nbsp;VR device is made in partnership with Oculus VR and is Samsung’s push into virtual reality. The device has got initial partners like Marvel and Legendary Pictures, pushing a focus on entertainment. “It’s a virtual cinema,” says Samsung EVP John Pleasants. The device will be on sale later in the fall. 
Last up in Samsung’s bag for Wednesday (it announced the Gear Circle wireless earphones and Gear S smartwatch last week) is a partnership with Milk Music. 
The company trotted out singer Adam Levine and Maroon 5 bandmate James Valentine to quickly plug the partnership.
										
										 
“We will have a ceremonial iPhone burning directly after this conference,” Levine improvised. The two launched a new album yesterday and Levine’s delirious, he said, after the media blitz. They touted that the album, ‘V’ will be available in the Milk store and paid respects to their new Samsung overlords, then were off. 
Samsung’s presentation is over, but I’m going to go check out the devices first-hand now and will update this post. 
&nbsp; 
Follow Alex on&nbsp;Forbes,&nbsp;Twitter&nbsp;and&nbsp;Facebook&nbsp;for more coverage of startups, enterprise software and venture capital.
