Oxygene Yachts to present the new Air range at Cannes Yachting Festival 2014 Oxygene Yachts to present the new Air range at Cannes Yachting Festival 2014 Oxygene Yachts has announced that their Air range will be unveiled at this month’s Cannes Yachting Festival.

In September 2013, Oxygène Yachts presented its Air 77 prototype at Cannes: a power catamaran with an exceptional design challenging old habits in the industry and establishing a new idea of space and fluidity of movement. In addition to its highly characteristic design, the Air 77 also attracted attention for its huge 33 sq ft door cut into the front of the roof: a move away from the traditional way of separating indoor and outdoor space. The result offers an entirely unobstructed space and view on the main deck.
Since then, Oxygène Yachts has signed a partnership agreement with Couach Shipyard for the construction of the definitive version. This model will be presented to the press and public for trials during Spring 2015.
But Oxygène Yachts didn’t just stop there. During the course of 2014, the brand has expanded by adding three new models to form a well-balanced range of 66 to 99 foot boats. Three new worthy representatives of the Oxygène spirit will be presented at this month’s Cannes Yachting Festival.

The remarkable design of Oxygène Yachts sprung from designer Frédéric Sarfati’s strong determination: to breathe new aesthetic inspiration into the universe of power catamarans. This inspiration is driven by the relentless quest for pure lines and on-board space. A quest for subtlety and balance that allows the boat to blend into its surrounding environment.
The result is impressive: a highly characteristic design rendered timeless by the simplicity of its lines. The name of the range does justice to this notion of space and movement: Air.
The lightness of the models in the Air range, made with strip planking (wood/epoxy and glass/carbon composite), their shallow draught and Ultrajet/Masterjet turbine engines give them a major technical advantage: they are incredibly easy to handle. The choice of engines goes towards defining the brand’s spirit, with a intentionally restricted top speed for each model and very reasonable fuel consumption.

The Air 66 is the most compact boat in the range. With all the characteristics of the Air 77, it is even easier to handle and takes up less space when docked. With 2152 sq ft of living space for a length of just 66 feet, life onboard the Air 66 centres around the “carré” which alone offers an area of 645 sq ft for sharing enjoyable moments. With its glass roof and front opening, the view from the stern reveals a 52 ft perspective in the axis of the boat and an unbroken view of the horizon.

As a development on the Air 77, the Air 77 W essentially presents aesthetical variations: raised bulwarks, remodelled hulls and deck, dingy integrated under the main deck…

The 99 foot Air 99 offers six cabins and 4305 sq ft of living space. While maintaining the harmony inherent to the concept of the Air range, this boat makes its mark with an impression of outrageous serenity and sensuality. The 1292 sq ft “carré” designed in the style of a loft offers a unique sensation of freedom. The 88 foot perspective unfolds uninterrupted towards the horizon through the vast doorway at the front.

To fit out the glass roofs present on each model in the Air range, Oxygène Yachts looked at integrating variable transparency glass, a revolution in the nautical sector that makes it possible for widespread use of bay windows with no fear of adverse effects from the sun.
The double glazing becomes darker or brighter according to the amount of sunlight thanks to an electronic process incorporated into the glass. At the heart of this process is an electrochromatic coating and a low voltage current making it possible to constantly adapt the tint of the glass to variations in sunlight. The more sunlight there is, the more the glass darkens. It restricts light transmission and limits heat generation. When sunlight is weak, the transparent glass allows the light in, optimising the beneficial effects of the solar flux.
Controlling the lightness level is as simple as the touch of a button on the wall. It can also be done automatically with a light intensity sensor.
By using variable transparency glass, the Air concept and its vast curved windows maximizing light takes on its true meaning.
&nbsp;