Acer Launches Iconia One 8 Powered By Intel, And MediaTek-Powered Iconia Tab 10 Acer Launches Iconia One 8 Powered By Intel, And MediaTek-Powered Iconia Tab 10 Iconia One 8Iconia Tab 10Comments (4)






Just about every major electronics manufacturer has something to show off at IFA 2014, and Acer is no exception. Amidst announcements for a handful of new laptop models, a few tablets made it on stage for a little bit of time in the spotlight. In a creative twist, the two Android tablets featured during the presentation were equipped with significantly different processors. Acer's Iconia One 8 is packing a quad-core processor from Intel while the Iconia Tab 10 is equipped with a MediaTek quad-core processor.

Iconia One 8
Acer is pulling to make the Iconia One series a little more personal and considerably more powerful than the Iconia One 7 introduced earlier this year. Its most notable specs include a moderate 1" bump in screen size and a fairly significant leap in processing power with the Intel Z3735G quad-core processor. In an effort to snag some style points, the Iconia One 8 is also going to ship in 10 different colors. We'll probably never see the One 8 in the US (or even most of western Europe), but it's set to release later this month in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa at a price of 149&euro;.

Iconia Tab 10
For something that will be coming stateside, check out the Iconia Tab 10. Similar to most of the 10" Android tablets we've seen lately, it has a 1920x1080 IPS display, dual speakers, and a micro-HDMI port. The biggest distinguishing factor is that Acer went with a MediaTek processor, most likely to keep production costs low. The Tab 10 will also launch later this month in the US for $199, and in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for 199&euro;.
Both devices are being kept very cost efficient, and neither is completely top-of-the line, but that means they are also priced pretty competitively. By keeping prices down and shipping with Android 4.4 KitKat, they will probably do pretty well in their categories.
